NOW, I’m afraid, the mode tae in vogue
Demands a rong, high-ſeaſon’d epilogue.
Elſe might ſome lly ſoul take pity’s part,
And odious virtue nk into the heart.
Our ſqueami author ſcruples this proceeding;
He ſays it hurts ſound morals, and good breeding:
Nor Sophonia would he here produce,
A glaring model, of no private uſe.
Ladies, he bid me ſay, behold your Cato.
What tho’ no Stoic e, nor read in Plato?
Yet ſure e oﬀer’d, for her country’s ſake,
A ſacriﬁce, which Cato could not make—
—Already, now, theſe wicked men are ſneering,
Some wreing what one ſays, and others leering.
I vow they have not rength for—public ſpirit.
That, ladies, mu be your ſuperior merit.
Mercy forbid! we ould lay down our lives;
Like theſe old, Punic, barbarous, heathen wives.
Spare chriian blood.—But ſure the devil’s in her,
Who for her country would not loſe a pinner.
—Lard! how could ſuch a creature ew her face?
How?—Ju as you do there—thro’ Bruels Lace.
The Roman fair, the public in direſs,
Gave up the deare ornaments of dreſs.
How much more cheaply might you gain applauſe?
—One yard of Ribban, and two ells of Gauſe.
And Gauſe each deep-read critic mu adore;
Your Roman ladies dreſs’d in Gauſe all o’er.
Should you, fair patriots, come to dreſs ſo thin;
How clear might all your—ſentiments be ſeen.
To foreign looms no longer owe your charms;
Nor make their trade more fatal than their arms.
Each Briti dame, who courts her country’s praiſe,
By quitting theſe outlandi modes, might raiſe
(Not from yon powder’d band, ſo thin, and ſpruce)
Ten able-bodied men, for—public uſe.
But now a ſerious word about the play.—
Auſpicious ſmile on this his ﬁr eay,
Ye generous Britons! your own ſons inſpire;
Let your applauſes fan their native ﬁre.
Then other Shakeſpears yet may rouze the age,
And other Otways melt another age.
Oﬀ oﬃcious toﬀ with your paonate agnation
And ow aing ﬂows mply ﬁll the nation
Et cætera fœtal Lælius feeble Jelly, is.
Frenchmen ﬂing crepes about. Vitality!