SCIPIO.
There is a holy tenderneſs indeed,
A nameleſs ſympathy, a fountain-love;
Branch’d inﬁnite from parents to their children,
From child to child, from kindred on to kindred,
In various ﬅreams, from citizen to citizen,
From friend to friend, from man to man in general;
That binds, ſupports, and ſweetens human life.
But is thy paon ſuch?—Liﬅ, Mania,
While I the hardeﬅ oﬃce of a friend
Diſcharge; and, with a neceary hand,
A hand tho’ har at preſent really tender,
I paint this paon. And if then thou ﬅill
Art bent to ſooth it, I muﬅ ghing leave thee,
To what the Gods think ﬁt.

MASINISSA.
O never, Scipio!
O never leave me to my ſelf! Speak on.
I dread, and yet dere thy friendly hand.

SCIPIO.
I hope that Mania need not now
Be told, how much his happineſs is mine;
With what a warm benevolence I’d ſpring
To raiſe, conﬁrm it, to prevent his wies.
O luxury to think!—But while he rages,
Burns in a fever, all I let him quaﬀ
Delicious poiſon for a cooling draught,
In fooli pity to his thirﬅ? all I
Let a ſwift ﬂame conſume him as he eeps,
Becauſe his dreams are gay? all I indulge
A frenzy ﬂa’d from an infeious eye?
A ſudden impulſe unapprov’d by reaſon?
Nay by thy cool deliberate thought condemn’d?
Reſolv’d againﬅ?—A paon for a woman,
Who has abus’d thee baſely? left thy youth,
Thy love as ſweet as tender as the ſpring,
The blooming heroe for the hoary tyrant?
And now who makes thy eltering arms alone
Her laﬅ retreat, to ſave her from the vengeance,
Which even her very perﬁdy to thee
Has brought upon her head?—Nor is this all.—
A woman who will ply her deepeﬅ arts,
(Ah too prevailing, as appears already)
Will never reﬅ, till Syphax’ fate is thine;
Till friendip weeping ﬂies; we join no more
In glorious deeds, and thou fall oﬀ from Rome?
I too could add, that there is ſomething mean,
Inhuman in thy paon. Does not Syphax,
While thou rejoiceﬅ, die? The generous heart
Should ſcorn a pleaſure which gives others pain.
If this, my friend, all this conder’d deep,
Allarm thee not, not rouze thy reſolution,
And call the heroe from his wanton umber,
Then Mania’s loﬅ.


SOPHONISBA
Yes, Mania loves me—Heavens! how fond!
But yet I know not what hangs on my ſpirit,
A diſmal boding; for this fatal Scipio,
I dread his virtues, this prevailing Roman,
Even now perhaps deludes the generous king,
Fires his ambition with miﬅaken glory,
Demands me from him; for full well he knows,
That, while I live, I muﬅ intend their ruin.

PHOENISSA.
Madam, theſe fears—

SOPHONISBA.
And yet it cannot be.
Can Scipio, whom even hoﬅile fame proclaims
Of perfe honour, and of poli’d manners,
Smooth, artful, winning, moderate, and wiſe,
Make ſuch a wild demand? Or, if he could,
Can Mania grant it? give his queen,
Whom love and honour bind him to prote,
Yield her a captive to triumphant Rome?
’Tis baſeneſs to ſuſpe it; ’tis inhuman.
What then remains?—Suppoſe they ould reſolve
By right of war to ſeize me for their prize.
Ay, there it kills!—What can his ngle arm,
Againﬅ the Roman power? that very power
By which he ﬅands reﬅor’d? Diﬅraing thought!
Still o’er my head the rod of bondage hangs.
Shame on my weakneſs!—This poor catching hope,
This tranent taﬅe of joy, will only more
Imbitter death.

Oﬀ oﬃcious toﬀ with your paonate agnation;
And ow-aing ﬂows mply ﬁll the nation?
Et cætera Lælius. Sophonia feeble Jelly, is.
“A and ye all receive” an iﬀy-ſpiﬃng ta, O Ægypt:
The quick red fox jumped over the lazy brown dog.
Kiſs me, Kate. Pleaſe? Quickly. Unleſs you don't want to.
Verily. X-Rays are dangerous.