THE TRAGEDY OF SOPHONISBA. Aed at the THEATRE-ROYAL IN DRURY-LANE. By His MAJESTY'S Servants.
By Mr. THOMSON.
LONDON: Printed for A. MILLAR, at Buchanan's Head, over-againﬅ St. Clement's Church in the Strand. M DCC XXX.
TO THE QUEEN.
MADAM,
THE notice, Your MAJESTY has condeſcended to take of the following Tragedy, emboldens me to lay it, in the humbleﬅ manner, at Your MAJESTY'S Feet. And to whom can this illuﬅrious Carthaginian ſo properly ﬂy for proteion, as to a QUEEN, who commands the hearts of a People, more powerful at ſea than Carthage? more ﬂouriing in commerce than thoſe ﬁrﬅ Merchants? more ſecure againﬅ conqueﬅ? and, under a
Monarchy, more free than a Commonwealth itſelf?
I dare not, nor indeed need I, here attempt a charaer, where both the great and the amiable Qualities ine forth in full perfeion. All words are faint to ſpeak what is univerſally felt, and acknowledged, by a happy people. Permit me therefore only to ſubſcribe my ſelf, with the trueﬅ zeal and veneration,
MADAM, 
Your MAJESTY'S Moﬅ humble, Moﬅ dutiful, And moﬅ devoted Servant, JAMES THOMSON.
PREFACE.
IT is not my intention, in this preface, to defend any faults that may be found in the following piece. I am afraid there are too many: But thoſe who are beﬅ able to diſcover, will be moﬅ ready to pardon them. They alone know how diﬃcult an undertaking the writing of a tragedy is: and this is a ﬁrﬅ attempt.
I beg leave only to mention the reaſon that determined me to make choice of this ſubje. What pleaſed me particularly, tho' perhaps it will not be leaﬅ liable to objeion with ordinary readers, was the great mplicity of the ﬅory. It is one, regular, and uniform, not charged with a multiplicity of incidents, and yet aﬀording ſeveral revolutions of fortune; by which the paons may be excited, varied, and driven to their full tumult of emotion
This unity of degn was always ſought after, and admired by the antients: and the moﬅ eminent among the moderns, who underﬅood their writings, have choſen to imitate them in this, from an intire conviion that the reaſon of it muﬅ hold good in all ages. And here allow me to tranate a paage from the celebrated Moneur Racine, which contains all that I have to ſay on this head.
We muﬅ not fancy that this rule has no other foundation but the caprice of thoſe who made it. Nothing can touch us in tragedy, but what is probable. And what probability is there, that, in one Day, ould happen a multitude of things, which could ſcarce happen in ſeveral Weeks? There are ſome who
think that this mplicity is a mark of barrenneſs of
invention. But they do not conder, that, on the
contrary, invention conﬅs in making ſomething out of nothing: and that this huddle of incidents has always been the refuge of poets, who did not ﬁnd in their genius either richneſs or force enough to engage their ſpeators, for ﬁve as together, by a mple aion, ſupported by the violence of paons, the beauty of ſentiments, and the nobleneſs of expreon.—I would not be underﬅood to mean that all theſe things are to be found in my performance: I only ew the reader what I aimed at, and how I would have pleaſed him, had it been in my power.
As to the charaer of Sophonia; in drawing it, I have conﬁned myſelf to the truth of hiﬅory. It were an aﬀront to the age, to ſuppoſe ſuch a charaer out of nature; eſpecially in a country which has produced ſo many great examples of public ſpirit and heroic virtues, even in the ſofter ſex: and I had deﬅroyed her charaer intirely, had I not marked it with that ﬅrong love to her country, diſdain of ſervitude, and inborn averon to the Romans, by which all hiﬅorians have diﬅinguied her. Nor ought her marrying Mania, while her former huand was ﬅill alive, to be reckoned a blemi in her charaer. For, by the laws both of Rome and Carthage, the captivity of the huand diolved the marriage of courſe; as among us impotence, or adultery: not to mention the reaſons of a moral and public nature, which I have put into her own mouth in the ſcene betwixt her and Syphax.
This is all I have to ſay of the play itſelf. But I cannot conclude without owning my obligations to thoſe concerned in the repreſentation. They have indeed done me more than juﬅice. Whatever was degned as amiable and engaging in Mania ines out in Mr. Wilks's aion. Mrs. Oldﬁeld, in the charaer of Sophonia, has excelled what, even in the fondneſs of an author, I could either wi or imagine. The grace, dignity, and happy variety of her aion have been univerſally applauded, and are truly admirable.
PROLOGUE.
By a FRIEND.
Spoken by Mr. WILLIAMS.
WHEN learning, after the long Gothic night,
Fair, o'er the weﬅern world, renew'd his light,
With arts aring Sophonia roſe:
The tragic muſe, returning, wept her woes.
With her th' Italian ſcene ﬁrﬅ learnt to glow;
And the ﬁrﬅ tears for her were taught to ﬂow.
Her charms the Gallic muſes next inſpir'd:
Corneille himſelf ſaw, wonder'd, and was ﬁr'd.
What foreign theatres with pride have ewn,
Britain, by juﬅer title, makes her own.
When freedom is the cauſe, 'tis hers to ﬁght;
And hers, wken freedom is the theme, to write.
For this, a Briti Author bids again
The heroine riſe, to grace the Briti ſcene.
Here, as in life, e breathes her genuine ﬂame:
She as what boſom has not felt the ſame?
As of the Briti Youth—Is lence there?
She dares to a it of the Briti Fair.
To night, our home-ſpun author would be true,
At once, to nature, hiﬅory, and you.
Well-pleas'd to give our neighbours due applauſe,
He owns their learning, but diſdains their laws.
Not to his patient touch, or happy ﬂame,
'Tis to his Briti heart he truﬅs for fame.
If France excel him in one free-born thought,
The man, as well as poet, is in fault.
Nature! informer of the poet's art,
Whoſe force alone can raiſe or melt the heart,
Thou art his guide; each paon, every line,
Whate'er he draws to pleaſe, muﬅ all be thine.
Be thou his judge: in every candid breaﬅ,
Thy lent whiſper is the ſacred teﬅ.
The Perſons repreſented.
MASINISSA, King of Maylia,
By Mr. Wilks.
SYPHAX, King of Maſœſylia,
By Mr. Mills.
NARVA, Friend to Mania,
By Mr. Roberts.
SCIPIO, the Roman General,
By Mr. Williams.
LAELIUS, his Lieutenant,
By Mr. Bridgewater.
SOPHONISBA,
By Mrs. Oldﬁeld.
PHOENISSA, her Friend,
By Mrs. Roberts.
Meenger, Slave, Guards, and Attendants.
SCENE The Palace of CIRTHA.
SOPHONISBA. A TRAGEDY.
ACT I. SCENE I.
SOPHONISBA, PHOENISSA.
SOPHONISBA.
THIS hour, Phœnia, this important hour,
Or ﬁxes me a queen, or from a throne
Throws Sophonia into Roman chains.
Deteﬅed thought! For now his utmoﬅ force
Colleed, deſperate, diﬅreſs'd, and ſore
From battles loﬅ; with all the rage of war,
Ill-fated Syphax makes his laﬅ eﬀort.
But ſay, thou partner of my hopes and fears,
Phœnia, ſay; while, from the lofty tower,
Our ﬅraining eyes the ﬁeld of battle ſought,
Ah, thought you not that our Numidian troops
Gave up the broken ﬁeld, and ſcattering ﬂed,
Wild o'er the hills, from the rapacious ſons
Of ﬅill triumphant Rome?
PHOENISSA.
The dream of care!
And think not, madam, Syphax can regn,
But with his ebbing life, in this laﬅ ﬁeld,
A crown, a kingdom, and a queen he loves
Beyond ambition's brighteﬅ wi; for whom,
Nor mov'd by threats, nor bound by plighted faith,
He ſcorn'd the Roman friendip (that fair name
For avery) and from th' engagements broke
Of Scipio, fam'd for every winning art,
The towering genius of recover'd Rome.
SOPHONISBA.
Oh name him not! Theſe Romans ﬅir my blood
To too much rage. I cannot bear the fortune
Of that proud people.—Said you not, Phœnia,
That Syphax lov'd me; which would ﬁre his battle,
And urge him on to death or conqueﬅ? True,
He loves me with the madneſs of dere;
His every paon is a ave to love;
Nor heeds he danger where I bid him go,
Nor leagues, nor intereﬅ. Hence theſe endleſs wars,
Theſe ravag'd countries, theſe ſucceſsleſs ﬁghts,
Suﬅain'd for Carthage; whoſe defence alone
Engag'd my loveleſs marriage-vows with his.
But know you not, that in the Roman camp
I have a lover too; a gallant, brave,
And diſappointed lover, full of wrath,
Returning to a kingdom whence the ſword
Of Syphax drove him?
PHOENISSA.
Mania?
SOPHONISBA.
He:
Young Mania, the Maylian king;
The ﬁrﬅ addreer of my youth; for whom
My boſom felt a fond beginning wi,
Extingui'd ſoon; when once to Scipio's de
Won o'er, and dazled by th' enchanting glare
Of that fair ſeeming heroe, he became
A gay admiring ave, yet knew it not.
E'er nce, my heart has held him in contempt;
And thrown out each idea of his worth,
That there began to grow: nay had it been
As all-poeﬅ, and ſoft, as her's who ts
In ſecret ades, or by the falling ﬅream,
And waﬅes her being in unutter'd pangs,
I would have broke, or cur'd it of its fondneſs.
PHOENISSA.
Heroic Sophonia!
SOPHONISBA.
No, Phoenia;
It is not for the daughter of great Aſdrubal,
Deſcended from a long illuﬅrious line
Of Carthaginian heroes, who have oft
Fill'd Italy with terror and diſmay,
And ook the walls of Rome, to pine in love,
Like a deluded maid; to give her life,
And heart high-beating in her country's cauſe,
Meant not for common aims and houold cares,
To give them up to vain preſuming man;
Much leſs to one who ﬅoops the neck to Rome,
An enemy to Carthage, Mania.
PHOENISSA.
Think not I mean to check that glorious ﬂame,
That juﬅ ambition which exalts your ſoul,
Fires on your cheek, and lightens in your eye.
Yet would he had been yours! this ring prince;
For, truﬅ me, fame is fond of Mania.
His various fortune, his reſplendent deeds,
His courage, condu, deep-experienc'd youth,
And vaﬅ unbroken ſpirit in diﬅreſs,
Still ring ﬅronger from the laﬅ defeat,
Are all the talk and terror too of Afric.
Who has not heard the ﬅory of his woes?
How hard he came to his paternal reign;
Whence ſoon by Syphax' unrelenting hate,
And jealous Carthage driven, he with a few
Fled to the mountains. Then, I think, it was
Hem'd in a circle of impending rocks,
That all his followers fell, ſave ﬁfty horſe;
Who, thence eſcap'd thro' ſecret paths abrupt,
Gain'd the Clupean plain. There overtook,
And urg'd by ﬁerce ſurrounding foes, he burﬅ
With four alone, ſore wounded, thro' their ranks,
And all amidﬅ a mighty torrent plung'd.
Seiz'd by the whirling gulph, two ſunk; and two,
With him obliquely hurried down the ﬅream,
Wrought to the farther ore. Th'aﬅoni'd troops
Stood check'd, and ivering on the gloomy brink,
And deem'd him loﬅ in the devouring ﬂood.
Mean time the dauntleſs, undeſpairing youth
Lay in a cave conceal'd; curing his wounds
With mountain-herbs, and on his horſes fed:
Nor here, even at the loweﬅ ebb of life,
Stoop'd his aſpiring mind. What need I ſay,
How once again reﬅor'd, and once again
Expell'd, among the Garamantian hills
He nce has wander'd, till the Roman arm
Reviv'd his cauſe? And who all reign alone,
Syphax or he, this day decides.
SOPHONISBA.
Enough.
Thou need'ﬅ not blazon thus his fame, Phœnia.
Were he as glorious as the pride of woman
Could wi, in all her wantonneſs of thought;
The joy of humankind; wiſe, valiant, good;
With every praiſe, with every laurel crown'd;
The warriour's wonder, and the virgin's gh:
Yet this would cloud him o'er, this blemi all;
His mean ſubmion to the Roman yoke;
That, falſe to Carthage, Afric, and himſelf,
With proferr'd hand and knee, he hither led
Theſe ravagers of earth.—But while we talk,
The work of fate goes on; even now perhaps
My dying country bleeds in every vein,
And the warm vior thunders at our gate.
SCENE II.
SOPHONISBA, PHOENISSA, and to them a MESSENGER from the Battle.
SOPHONISBA.
Ha! Whence art thou? Speak, tho' thy bleeding wounds
Might well excuſe thy tongue.
MESSENGER.
Madam eſcap'd,
With much ado, from yon wide death—
SOPHONISBA.
No more.
At once thy meaning ﬂaes o'er my ſoul.
Oh all my vani'd hopes! repairleſs chance
Of undiſcerning war!—And is all loﬅ?
An univerſal havock?
MESSENGER.
Madam, all.
For ſcarce a Maſœſylian, ſave my ſelf,
But is or ſeiz'd, or bites the bloody plain.
The King—
SOPHONISBA.
Ah! what of him?
MESSENGER.
His ﬁery ﬅeed,
By Mania, the Maylian prince,
Pierc'd, threw him headlong to his cluﬅering foes;
And now he comes in chains.
SOPHONISBA.
'Tis wond'rous ﬁt,
Abſolute gods! All Afric is in chains!
The weeping world in chains!—Oh is there not
A time, a righteous time, reſerv'd in fate,
When theſe oppreors of mankind all feel
The miſeries they give; and blindly ﬁght
For their own fetters too?—The conquering troops,
How points their motion?
MESSENGER.
At my heels they came,
Loud-outing, dreadful, in a cloud of duﬅ,
By Mania headed.
SOPHONISBA.
Hark! arriv'd.
The murmuring crowd rolls frighted to the palace.
Thou bleed'ﬅ to death, poor faithful wretch, away,
And dreſs thy wounds, if life be worth thy care;
Tho' Rome, methinks, will loſe a ave in thee.
Would Sophonia were as near the verge
Of boundleſs, and immortal liberty!
SCENE III.
SOPHONISBA, PHOENISSA.
[After a Pauſe.]
SOPHONISBA.
And wherefore not? When liberty is loﬅ,
Let aves and cowards live; but in the brave
It were a treachery to themſelves, enough
To merit chains. And is it ﬁt for me,
Who in my veins, from Aſdrubal deriv'd,
Hold Carthaginian enmity to Rome;
On whom I've lavi'd all my burning ſoul,
In everlaﬅing hate; for whoſe deﬅruion
I ſold my joyleſs youth to Syphax' arms,
And turn'd him ﬁerce upon them; ﬁt for ſuch
A native, reﬅleſs, unrelenting foe,
To t down ſoftly-penve, and await
Th'approaching vior's rage; reſerv'd in chains
To grace his triumph, and become the ſcorn
Of every Roman dame—Gods! how my ſoul
Diſdains the thought! and this all ſet it free.
[Oﬀers to ﬅab her ſelf.]
PHOENISSA.
Hold, Sophonia, hold! my friend! my queen!
For whom alone I live! hold your ra point,
Nor thro' your guardian boſom ﬅab your country.
That is our laﬅ reſort, and always ſure.
The gracious gods are liberal of death;
To that laﬅ bleng lend a thouſand ways.
Think not I'd have you live to drag a chain,
And walk the triumph of inſulting Rome.
No, by theſe tears of loyalty and love!
Ere I beheld ſo vile a ght, this hand
Should urge the faithful poynard to your heart,
And glory in the deed. But, while hope lives,
Let not the generous die. 'Tis late before
The brave deſpair.
SOPHONISBA.
Thou copy of my ſoul!
And now my friend indeed! Shew me but hope,
One glimpſe of hope, and I'll renew my toils,
Call patience, labour, fortitude again,
The vext unjoyous day, and eepleſs night;
Nor rink at danger, any ape of death,
Shew me the ſmalleﬅ hope! Alas, Phœnia,
Too kindly conﬁdent! Hope lives not here,
Fled with her ﬅer Liberty beyond
The Garamantian hills, to ſome ﬅeep wild,
Some undiſcover'd country, where the foot
Of Roman cannot come.
PHOENISSA.
Yes, there e liv'd
With Mania, wounded, and forlorn,
Amidﬅ the ſerpents, hiſs, and tygers, yell.—
SOPHONISBA.
Why nam'ﬅ thou him?
PHOENISSA.
Madam, in this forgive
My forward zeal; from him proceeds our hope.
He lov'd you once; nor is your form impair'd,
Warm'd, and unfolded into ﬅronger charms:
Ask his proteion from the Roman power,
You muﬅ prevail; for Sophonia ſure
From Mania cannot ask in vain.
SOPHONISBA.
Now, by the prompting genius of my country!
I thank thee for the thought. True, there is pain
Even in deſcending thus to beg proteion,
From that degenerate youth. But oh for thee,
My nking country! and again to gaul
This hated Rome, what would I not endure?
It all be done, Phœnia; tho' diſguﬅ
Choak'd up my ﬅruggling meaning, all be done.
[kneels.
But here I vow, propitious Juno, hear!
Could every pomp and every pleaſure joyn'd,
Love, empire, glory, a whole kneeling world,
Unnerve my ſmalleﬅ purpoſe, and remit
That moﬅ inveterate enmity I bear
The Roman ﬅate; may Carthage ſmoak in ruins!
Rome riſe the miﬅreſs of mankind! and I,
There an abandon'd ave, drag out a length
Of life, in loathſome baſeneſs, and contempt!
This way the trumpet ſounds; let us retire.
SCENE IV.
MASINISSA, SYPHAX in Chains, NARVA, Guards, &amp;c.
SYPHAX.
Is there no dungeon in this city? dark,
As is my troubled ſoul? That thus I'm brought
To my own palace, to thoſe rooms of ﬅate,
Wont in another manner to receive me,
With other gns of royalty than theſe.
(looking on his chains.)
MASINISSA.
I will not wound thee, not inſult thee, Syphax,
With a recital of thy tyrant crimes.
A captive here I ſee thee, fallen below
My moﬅ revengeful wi; and all the rage,
The noble fury that inſpir'd this morn
Is ſunk to ſoft compaon. In the ﬁeld,
The ﬂaming front of war, there is the ſcene
Of brave revenge; and I have ſought thee there,
Keen as the hunted lyon ſeeks his foe.
But when a broken enemy, diſarm'd,
And helpleſs lies; a falling ſword, an eye
With pity ﬂowing, and an arm as weak
As infant ſoftneſs, then becomes the brave.
Now eeps the ſword; the paons of the ﬁeld
Subde to peace; and my relenting ſoul
Melts at thy fate.
SYPHAX.
This, this, is all I dread,
All I deteﬅ, this inſolence reﬁn'd,
This barbarous pity, this aﬀeed goodneſs.
Pitied by thee!—Is there a form of death,
Of torture, and of infamy like that?
It kills my very ſoul!—Ye partial gods!
I feel your worﬅ; why ould I fear you more?
Hear me, vain youth! take notice—I abhor
Thy mercy, loath it.—Poiſon to my thoughts!
Wouldﬅ thou be merciful? One way alone
Thou canﬅ oblige me.—Uſe me like a ave;
As I would thee, (delicious thought!) wert thou
Here crouching in my power.
MASINISSA.
Outragious man!
If that is mercy, I'll be cruel ﬅill.
Nor canﬅ thou drive me, by thy bittereﬅ rage,
To an unmanly deed; not all thy wrongs,
Nor this worſe triumph in them.
SYPHAX.
Ha! ha! wrongs?
I cannot wrong thee. When we lanch the ſpear
Into the monﬅer's heart, or cru the ſerpent;
Deﬅroy what in antipathy we hold,
The common foe; can that be call'd a wrong?
Injurious that? Abſurd! it cannot be.
MASINISSA.
I'm loth to hurt thee more.—The tyrant works
Too ﬁerce already in thy rankled breaﬅ.
But nce thou ſeem'ﬅ to rank me with thy ſelf,
With great deﬅroyers, with perﬁdious kings;
I muﬅ reply to thy licentious tongue,
Bid thee remember, whoſe accurſed ſword
Began this work of death; who broke the ties,
The holy ties, atteﬅed by the gods,
Which bind the nations in the bond of peace;
Who meanly took advantage of my youth,
Unill'd in arms, unſettled on my throne,
And drove me to the deſart, there to dwell
With kinder monﬅers; who my cities ſack'd,
My country pillag'd, and my ſubjes murder'd;
Who ﬅill purſu'd me with inveterate hate,
When generous force prov'd vain, with ruﬃan arts,
The villain's dagger, baſe aanation.
And for no reaſon all. Brute violence
Alone thy plea.—What the leaﬅ provocation,
Say, canﬅ thou but pretend?
SYPHAX.
I needed none.
Nature has in my being ſown the ſeeds
Of enmity to thine.—Nay mark me this.
Couldﬅ thou reﬅore me to my former ﬅate,
Strike oﬀ theſe chains, give me the ſword again,
The ſceptre, and the wide-obedient war:
Yet muﬅ I ﬅill, implacable to thee,
Seek eagerly thy death, or die my ſelf.
Life cannot hold us both!—Unequal gods!
Who love to diſappoint mankind, and take
All Vengeance to your ſelves; why to the point
Of my long-ﬂatter'd wies did ye lift me,
Then nk me thus ſo low? Juﬅ as I drew
The glorious ﬅroke that was to make me happy,
Why did you blaﬅ my ﬅrong extended arm?
Strike the dry ſword unſated to the ground?
But that to mock us is your cruel ſport?
What elſe is human life?
MASINISSA.
Thus always join'd
With an inhuman heart, and brutal manners,
Is irreligion to the ruling gods;
Whoſe ſchemes our peevi ignorance arraigns,
Our thoughtleſs pride.—Thy loﬅ condition, Syphax,
Is nothing to the tumult of thy breaﬅ.
There lies the ﬅing of evil, there the drop
That poiſons nature.—Ye myﬅerious powers!
Whoſe ways are ever-gracious, ever-juﬅ,
As ye think wiſeﬅ, beﬅ, diſpoſe of me;
But, whether thro' your gloomy depths I wander,
Or on your mountains walk; give me the calm
The ﬅeady, ſmiling ſoul; where wiſdom eds,
Eternal ſunine and eternal joy.
Then, if misfortune comes, e brings along
The braveﬅ virtues. And ſo many great
Illuﬅrious ſpirits have convers'd with woe,
(The pride of adverſe fate!) as are enough
To conſecrate diﬅreſs, and make even death
Ambition.
SYPHAX.
Torture! Racks! The common trick
Of inſolent ſucceſs, unſuﬀering pride,
This prate of patience, and I know not what.
'Tis all a lie, impraicable rant;
And only tends to make me ſcorn thee more.
But why this talk? In mercy ſend me hence;
Yet—ere I go—Oh ſave me from diﬅraion!
I know, hot youth, thou burneﬅ for my queen;
But by the majeﬅy of ruin'd kings,
And that commanding glory which ſurrounds her,
I charge thee touch her not!
MASINISSA.
No, Syphax, no.
Thou need'ﬅ not charge me. That were mean indeed,
A triumph that to thee. But could I ﬅoop
Again to love her; Thou, what right haﬅ thou,
A captive, to her bed? Nor life, nor queen,
Nor ought, a captive has. All laws in this,
Roman and Carthaginian, all agree.
SYPHAX.
Here, here, begins the bitterneſs of death!
Here my chains grind me ﬁrﬅ!
MASINISSA.
Poor Sophonia!
She too becomes the prize of conquering Rome;
What moﬅ her heart abhors. Alas, how hard
Will avery t on her exalted ſoul!
How piteous hard! But, if I know her well,
She never will endure it, e will die.
For not a Roman burns with nobler ardor,
A higher ſenſe of liberty than e;
And tho' e marry'd thee, her only ﬅain,
Falſe to my youth, and faithleſs to my vows;
Yet, I muﬅ own it, from a worthy cauſe,
From publick ſpirit did her fault proceed.
SYPHAX.
Blue plagues, and poiſon on thy meddling tongue!
Talk not of her; for every word of her
Is a keen dagger, griding thro' my heart.
Oh, for a lonely dungeon! where I rather
Would talk with my own groans, and great revenge,
Than in the manons of the bleﬅ with thee.
Hell! Whither muﬅ I go?
MASINISSA.
Unhappy man!
And is thy breaﬅ determin'd againﬅ peace,
On comfort ut?
SYPHAX.
On all, but death, from thee.
MASINISSA.
Narva, be Syphax thy peculiar care;
And uſe him well with tenderneſs and honour.
This evening Lelius, and to morrow Scipio,
To Cirtha come. Then let the Romans take
Their priſoner.
SYPHAX.
There ines a gleam of hope
Acroſs the gloom—From thee deliver'd!—Eaſe
Breathes in that thought—Lead on—My heart grows lighter!
SCENE V.
MASINISSA alone.
What dreadful havoc in the human breaﬅ
The paons make, when unconﬁn'd, and mad,
They burﬅ, unguided by the mental eye,
The light of reaſon; which in various ways
Points them to good, or turns them back from ill.
O ſave me from the tumult of the ſoul!
From the wild beaﬅs within!—For circling ſands,
When the ſwift whirlwind whelms them o'er the lands;
The roaring deeps that to the clouds ariſe,
While thwarting thick the mingled lightning ﬂies;
The monﬅer-brood to which this land gives birth,
The blazing city, and the gaping earth;
All deaths, all tortures, in one pang combin'd,
Are gentle to the tempeﬅ of the mind.
The End of the Firﬅ A.
ACT II. SCENE I.
MASINISSA, NARVA,
MASINISSA.
—'Tis true, my friend,
Thou good old man, by whom my youth was form'd,
The ﬁrm companion of my various life,
I own, 'tis true, that Sophonia's image
Lives in my boſom ﬅill; and at each glance
I take in ſecret of the bright idea,
A ﬅrange diſorder ſeizes on my ſoul,
Which burns with ﬅronger glory. Need I ſay,
How once e had my vows? Till Scipio came,
Reﬅleſs man! like a deſcending God,
And ſnatch'd me from the Carthaginian de
To nobler Rome; beneath whoſe laurel'd brow,
And ample eye, the nations grow polite,
Humane and happy. Then thou may'ﬅ remember,
Such is this woman's high impetuous ſpirit,
That all-controuling love e bears her country,
Her Carthage; that at this e ſacriﬁc'd
To Syphax, unbelov'd, her blooming Years,
And won him oﬀ from Rome.
NARVA.
My generous prince!
Applauding Afric of thy choice approves.
Fame claps her wings, and virtue ſmiles on thee,
Of peace thou ſoftner, and thou ſoul of war!
But oh beware of that fair foe to glory,
Woman! and moﬅ of Carthaginian woman!
Who has not heard of fatal Punic guile?
Of their y conqueﬅs? their indious leagues?
Their Aſdrubals? their Hannibals? with all
Their wily heroes? And, if ſuch their men,
What muﬅ their women be?
MASINISSA.
You make me ſmile.
I thank thy honeﬅ zeal. But never dread
The ﬁrmneſs of my heart, my ﬅrong attachment,
Severe to Rome, to Scipio, and to Glory.
Indeed, I cannot, would not quite forget
The grace of Sophonia; how e look'd,
And talk'd, and mov'd, a Pallas, or a Juno!
Accompli'd even in triﬂes, when e ﬅoop'd
Ambition's ﬂight, and with a ſoften'd eye
Gave her quick ſpirit into gayer life.
Then every word was livelineſs, and wit;
We heard the Muſes' ſong; and the dance ſwam
Thro' all the maze of harmony. I ﬂatter not,
Believe me, Narva; yet my panting ſoul,
To Scipio taken in the fair purſuit
Of fame, and for my people's happineſs,
Regn'd this Sophonia; and tho' now
Conﬅrain'd by ſoft necety to ſee her,
And e a captive in my power, will ﬅill
Regn her.
NARVA.
Let me not doubt thy fortitude,
My Mania, thy exalted purpoſe
Not to be loﬅ in love; but ah! we know not,
Oft, till experience ghs it to the ſoul,
The boundleſs witchcraft of enſnaring woman,
And our own ippery hearts. From Scipio learn
The temperance of heroes. I'll recount
Th' inﬅruive ﬅory, what theſe eyes beheld;
Perhaps you've heard it; but 'tis pleang ﬅill,
Tho' told a thouſand times.
MASINISSA.
I burn to hear it.
Loﬅ by my late misfortunes in the deſart,
I liv'd a ﬅranger to the voice of fame,
To Scipio's laﬅ exploits. Exalt me now.
Great aions raiſe the mind. But when a friend,
A Scipio does them; then with more than wonder,
Even with a ſort of vanity we liﬅen.
NARVA.
When to his glorious, ﬁrﬅ eay in war,
New Carthage fell; there all the ﬂower of Spain
Were kept in hoﬅage; a full ﬁeld preſenting
For Scipio's generoty to ine.
And then it was, that when the heroe heard▪
How I to thee belong'd, he with large gifts,
And friendly words diſmiſs'd me.
MASINISSA.
I remember.
And in his favour that impreſs'd me ﬁrﬅ.
But to thy ﬅory.
NARVA.
What with admiration
Struck every heart, was this—A noble virgin,
Conſpicuous far o'er all the captive dames,
Was mark'd the general's prize. She wept, and blu'd,
Young, fre, and blooming like the morn. An eye,
As when the blue y trembles thro' a cloud
Of pureﬅ white. A ſecret charm combin'd
Her features, and infus'd enchantment thro' them.
Her ape was harmony.—But eloquence
Beneath her beauty fails; which ſeem'd, on purpoſe,
Pour'd out by lavi nature, that mankind
Might ſee this aion in its higheﬅ luﬅre.
Soft, as e paſs'd along, with downcaﬅ eyes,
Where gentle ſorrow ſwell'd, and now and then
Dropt o'er her modeﬅ cheek a trickling tear,
The Roman legions langui'd; and hard war
Felt more than pity. Even Scipio's ſelf,
As on his high tribunal rais'd he ſat,
Turn'd from the piercing ght, and chiding a'd
His oﬃcers, if by this gift they meant
To cloud his glory in its very dawn.
MASINISSA.
Oh Gods! my ﬂuttering heart! On, ﬅop not, Narva.
NARVA.
She queﬅion'd of her birth, in trembling accents,
With tears and blues broken, told her tale.
But when he found her royally deſcended,
Of her old captive parents the ſole joy;
And that a hapleſs Celtiberian prince,
Her lover and belov'd, forgot his chains,
His loﬅ dominions, and for her alone
Wept out his tender ſoul; ſudden the heart
Of this young, conquering, loving, godlike Roman
Felt all the great divinity of virtue▪
His wiing youth ﬅood check'd, his tempting power▪
By inﬁnite humanity—
MASINISSA.
Well, well;
And then!
NARVA.
Diſdaining guilty doubt, at once
He for her parents and her lover call'd.
The various ſcene imagine: How his troops
Look'd dubious on, and wonder'd what he meant;
While ﬅretch'd below the trembling ſuppliants lay,
Rack'd by a thouſand mingling paons, fear,
Hope, jealouſy, diſdain, ſubmion, grief,
Anxiety, and love in every ape.
To theſe as diﬀerent ſentiments ſucceeded,
As mixt emotions, when the man divine
Thus the dread lence to the lover broke.
" We both are young, both charm'd. The Right of War
" Has put thy beauteous miﬅreſs in my power;
" With whom I could, in the moﬅ ſacred ties,
" Live out a happy life: But know that Romans
" Their hearts as well as enemies can conquer.
" Then take her to thy ſoul; and with her take
" Thy liberty and kingdom. In return
" I a no more, but, when you view theſe eyes,
" Theſe charms, with tranſport, be a friend to Rome.
MASINISSA.
There ſpoke the ſoul of Scipio—But the Lovers?
NARVA.
Joy and extatic wonder held them mute;
While the lowd camp, and all the cluﬅring crowd,
That hung around, rang with repeated outs.
Fame took th' alarm, and thro' reſounding Spain
Blew faﬅ the fair report; which, more than arms,
Admiring nations to the Romans gain'd,
MASINISSA.
My friend in glory! thy awaken'd prince
Springs at thy faithful tale. It ﬁres my ſoul,
And nerves each thought anew; apt oft perhaps,
Too much, too much to acken into love.
But now the ſoft oppreon ﬂies; and all
My mounting powers expand to deeds like thine,
Thou pattern and inſpirer of my fame,
Scipio, thou ﬁrﬅ of men, and beﬅ of friends!
What man of ſoul would live, my Narva, breathe
This idle-puﬃng element; and run,
Day after day, the ﬅill-returning round
Of life's mean oﬃces, and ckly joys;
But in compaon to mankind? to be
A guardian God below? to dipate
An ardent being in heroic aims?
Do ſomething vaﬅly great like what you told?
Something to raiſe him o'er the groveling herd,
And make him ine for ever?—Oh, my friend!
Bleed every vein about me; every nerve
With angui tremble; every new ake;
Be toil familiar to my limbs; ambition
Mix all my thoughts in an inceant whirl;
The third time may I loſe my kingdom; and again
Wander the falſe inhoſpitable Syrts;
Yet oh, ye liberal Gods! in rich award,
And ampleﬅ recompence—I a no more—
Share me the wreath of fame from Scipio's brow!
But ſee, e comes! mark her majeﬅic port.
SCENE II.
MASINISSA, SOPHONISBA, NARVA, PHOENISSA.
SOPHONISBA.
Behold, viorious prince! the ſcene revers'd;
And Sophonia kneeling here; a captive,
O'er whom the Gods, thy Fortune, and thy Virtue,
Have given unqueﬅion'd power of life and death.
If ſuch a one may raiſe her ſuppliant voice,
Once muc to thy ear; if e may touch
Thy knee, thy purple, and thy vior-hand;
Oh liﬅen, Mania! Let thy ſoul
Intenſely liﬅen! While I fervent pray,
And ﬅrong adjure thee, by that regal ﬅate,
In which with equal pomp we lately one!
By the Numidian name, our common boaﬅ!
And by thoſe houold gods! who may, I wi,
With better omens take thee to this palace,
Than Syphax hence they ſent. As is thy pleaſure,
In all bede determine of my fate.
This, this alone I beg. Never, oh never!
Into the cruel, proud, and hated power
Of Romans let me fall. Since angry heaven
Will have it ſo, that I muﬅ be a ave,
And that a galling chain muﬅ bind theſe hands;
It were ſome little ſoftning in my doom,
To call a kindred ſon of the ſame clime,
A native of Numidia, my lord.
But if thou canﬅ not ſave me from the Romans,
If this ſad favour be beyond thy power;
At leaﬅ to give me death is what thou canﬅ.
Here ﬅrike—my naked boſom courts thy ſword;
And my laﬅ breath all bleſs thee, Mania.
MASINISSA.
Riſe, Sophonia, riſe. To ſee thee thus
Is a revenge I ſcorn; and all the man
Within me, though much injur'd by thy pride,
And ſpirit too tempeﬅuous for thy ſex,
Yet blues to behold thus at my feet,
Thus proﬅrate low, her, for whom kings have kneel'd,
The faireﬅ, but the falſeﬅ of her ſex.
SOPHONISBA.
Spare thy reproach.—'Tis cruel thus to loſe
In ranckling diſcord, and ungenerous ﬅrife,
The few remaining moments that divide me
From the laﬅ evil, bondage—Roman bondage!
Yes, ut thy heart againﬅ me. Shut thy heart
Againﬅ compaon, every human thought,
Even recolleed love: Yet know, ra Youth!
That when thou ſeeﬅ me ſwell their lofty triumph,
Thou ſeeﬅ thy ſelf in me. This is my day;
To morrow may be thine. But here, aur'd,
Here will I lie on this vile earth, forlorn,
Of hope abandon'd, nce deſpis'd by thee;
Theſe locks all looſe and ſordid in the duﬅ;
This ſullied boſom growing to the ground,
Scorch'd up with angui, and of every ape
Of miſery full: till comes the ſoldier ﬁerce
From recent blood; and, in thy very eye,
Lays raging his rude ſanguinary graſp
On theſe weak limbs; and clinches them in chains.
Then if no friendly ﬅeel, no near'd draught
Of deadly poiſon, can enlarge my ſoul;
It will indignant burﬅ from a ave's body;
And, join'd to mighty Dido, ſcorn ye all.
MASINISSA.
Oh Sophonia! 'tis not ſafe to hear thee;
And I miﬅook my Heart, to truﬅ it thus.
Hence let me ﬂy.
SOPHONISBA.
You all not, Mania!
Here will I hold you, tremble here for ever;
Here unremitting grow, till you conſent.
And can'ﬅ thou think, oh! canﬅ thou think to leave me?
Expos'd, defenceleſs, wretched, here alone?
A prey to Romans ﬂu'd with blood and conqueﬅ?
The ſubje of their ſcorn or baſer love?
Sure Mania cannot; and, tho' chang'd,
Tho' cold as that averted look he wears;
Sure love can ne'er in generous breaﬅs be loﬅ
To that degree, as not from ame and outrage
To ſave what once they lov'd.
MASINISSA.
Enchantment! Madneſs!
What would'ﬅ thou, Sophonia!—Oh my heart!
My treacherous heart!
SOPHONISBA.
What would I, Mania?
My mean Requeﬅ ts bluing on my cheek.
To be thy ave, young prince, is what I beg;
Here Sophonia kneels to be thy ave;
Yet kneels in vain. But thou'rt a ave thy ſelf,
And canﬅ not from the Romans ſave one woman;
Her, who was once the triumph of thy ſoul;
E'er they ſeduc'd it by their lying glory.
Immortal gods! and am I fallen ſo low?
Scorn'd by a lover? by a ave to Rome?
Nought can be worth this baſeneſs, life, nor empire!
I loath me for it.—On this kinder earth,
Then leave me, leave me, to deſpair and death!
MASINISSA.
What means this conﬂi with almighty nature?
With the whole warring heart?—Riſe, quickly riſe,
In all the conquering majeﬅy of charms,
O Sophonia, riſe! while here I ſwear,
By the tremendous powers that rule mankind!
By heaven and earth, and hell! by love, and glory!
The Romans all not hurt you—Romans cannot;
For Rome is generous as the gods themſelves,
And honours, not inſults, a generous foe.
Yet nce you dread them, take this ſacred pledge,
This hand of ſurety, by which kings are bound;
By which I hold you mine, and vow to treat you,
With all the rev'rence due to ruin'd ﬅate,
With all the ſoftneſs of remember'd love,
All that can ſooth thy fate, and make thee happy.
SOPHONISBA.
I thank thee, Mania! now the ſame;
The ſame warm youth, exalted, full of ſoul;
With whom in happier days I wont to paſs
The ghing hour: while, dawning fair in love,
All ſong and ſweetneſs, life ſet joyous out;
Ere the black tempeﬅ of ambition roſe,
And drove us diﬀerent ways.—Thus dreſs'd in war,
In nodding plumes, o'ercaﬅ with ſullen thought,
With purpos'd vengeance dark, I knew thee not;
But now breaks out the beauteous fun anew,
The gay Numidian ines who warm'd me once,
Whoſe love was glory.—Vain ideas, hence!
—Long nce my heart, to nobler paons known,
Has your acquaintance ſcorn'd.
MASINISSA.
Oh! while you talk,
Enchanting fair one! my deluded thought
Runs back to days of love; when fancy ﬅill
Found worlds of beauty, ever ring new
To the tranſported eye; when ﬂattering hope
Form'd endleſs proſpes of increang bliſs;
And ﬅill the credulous heart believ'd them all,
Even more than love could promiſe.—But the ſcene
Is full of danger for a tainted eye;
I muﬅ not, dare not, will not look that way.
O hide it, wiſdom, glory, from my view!
Or in ſweet ruin I all link again.
Diſaﬅer clouds thy cheek; thy colour goes.
Retire, and from the troubles of the day
Repoſe thy weary ſoul; worn out with care,
And rough unhappy thought.
SOPHONISBA.
May Mania
Ne'er want the goodneſs he has ewn to me.
SCENE III.
MASINISSA, NARVA.
MASINISSA.
The danger's o'er, I've heard the Syren's ſong,
Yet ﬅill to glory hold my ﬅeady courſe.
I mark'd thy kind concern, thy friendly fears,
And own them juﬅ; for e has beauty, Narva,
So full, ſo perfe, with ſo great a ſoul
Inform'd, ſo pointed high with ſpirit,
As ﬅrikes like lightning from the hand of Jove,
And raiſes love to glory.
NARVA.
Ah, my Prince!
Too true, it is too true; her fatal charms
Are powerful, and to Mania's heart
But know the way too well. And art thou ſure,
That the ſoft poiſon, which within thy veins
Lay unextingui'd, is not rouz'd a new?
Is not this moment working thro' thy ſoul?
Doft thou not love? Confeſs.
MASINISSA.
What ſaid my friend,
Of poiſon? love? of loving Sopkon a?
Yes, I admire her, wonder at her beauty;
And he who does not is as dull as earth,
The cold unanimated form of man,
E'er lighted up with the celeﬅial ﬁre.
Wheree'r e goes ﬅill admiration gazes,
And liﬅens while e talks. Even thou thy ſelf,
Who ſaw'ﬅ her with the malice of a friend,
Even thou thy ſelf admir'ﬅ her.—Doﬅ thou not?
Say, ſpeak ncerely.
NARVA.
She has Charms indeed;
But has e charms like virtue? Tho' majeﬅic;
Does e command us, is her force like glory?
MASINISSA.
All glory's in her eye! Perfeion thence
Looks from his throne; and on her ample brow
Sits majeﬅy. Her features glow with life,
Warm with heroic ſoul. Her mien!—e walks,
As when a towering goddeſs treads this earth.
But when her language ﬂows; when ſuch a one
Deſcends to ſooth, to gh, to weep, to graſp
The tottering knee; oh! Narva, Narva, oh.!
Expreon here is dumb.
NARVA.
Alas! my Lord,
Is this the talk of ſober admiration?
Are theſe the ſallies of a heart at eaſe?
Of Scipio's friend? And was it the calm ſenſe
Of fair perfeion, that, the while e kneel'd
For what you raly promis'd, ſeiz'd your ſoul;
Stole out in ſecret tranſports from your eye;
That writh'd you groaning round, and ook your Frame.
MASINISSA.
I tell thee once again, too cautious man,
That when a woman begs, a matchleſs woman,
A woman once belov'd, a fallen queen,
A Sophonia! when e twines her charms
Around our ſoul, and all her power of looks,
Of tears, of ghs, of ſoftneſs, plays upon us;
He's more or leſs than man who can reﬅ her.
For me, my ﬅedfaﬅ ſoul approves, nay more,
Exults in the proteion it has promis'd.
And nought, tho' plighted honour did not bind me,
Shall ake the happy purpoſe of my heart;
Nought, by th'avenging gods! who heard my vow,
And hear me now again.
NARVA.
And was it then
For this you conquer'd?
MASINISSA.
Yes, and triumph in it.
This was my fondeﬅ wi; the very point,
The plume of glory, the delicious prize
Of bleeding years. And I had been a brute,
A greater monﬅer than Numidia breeds,
A horror to my ſelf; if on the ground,
Caﬅ vilely from me, I th'illuﬅrious fair one
Had left to bondage, bitterneſs, and death.
Nor is there ought in war worth what I feel;
In pomp and hollow ﬅate, like this ſweet ſenſe
Of infelt bliſs; which the reﬂeion gives me,
Of ſaving thus ſuch excellence and beauty
From her ſupreme abhorrence.
NARVA.
Mania,
My friend! my royal lord! alas! you ide,
You nk from virtue. On the giddy brink
Of fate you ﬅand.—One ﬅep, and all is loft!
MASINISSA.
No more, no more! if this is being loﬅ.
If this, miﬅaken! is forſaking virtue,
And ruing down the precipice of fate;
Then down I go, far far beyond the din
Of ſcrupulous dull precaution.—Leave me, Narva.
I want to be alone, to ﬁnd ſome Shade,
Some ſolitary gloom; there to ake oﬀ
This weight of life, this tumult of mankind,
This ck ambition on it ſelf recoiling;
And there to liﬅen to the gentle voice,
The gh of peace, ſomething, I know not what,
That whiſpers tranſport to my heart.—Farewel.
SCENE IV.
NARVA alone.
Struck, and he knows it not.—So when the ﬁeld,
Elate in heart, the warriour ſcorns to yield;
The ﬅreaming blood can ſcarce convince his eyes;
Nor will he feel the wound by which he dies.
The End of the Second A.
ACT III. SCENE I.
MASINISSA alone.
IN vain I wander thro' the ade for peace;
'Tis with the calm alone, the pure of heart,
That there the goddeſs talks—But in my breaﬅ
Some buſy thought, ſome ſecret-eating pang,
Throbs inexpreble; and rowls from—What?
From charm to charm, on Sophonia ﬅill
Earneﬅ, intent, devoted all to her.
Oh it muﬅ out!—'Tis love, almighty love!
Returning on me with a ﬅronger tide.
I'll doubt no more, but give it up to love.
Come to my breaﬅ, thou roſy-ſmiling god!
Come unconﬁn'd! bring all thy joys along,
All thy ſoft cares, and mix them copious here.
But why invoke I thee? Thy power is weak,
To Sophonia's eye, thy quiver poor,
To the reﬅleſs lightning of her form;
And dull thy bare innuating arts,
To the ſweet mazes of her ﬂowing tongue.
Quick, let me ﬂy to her; and there forget
This tedious abſence, war, ambition, noiſe,
Even friendip's ſelf, the vanity of fame,
And all but love, for love is more than all!
SCENE II.
MASINISSA, NARVA.
MASINSSSA.
Welcome again, my friend,—Come nearer, Narva;
Lend me thine arm, and I will tell thee all,
Unfold my ſecret heart, whoſe every pulſe
With Sophonia beats.—Nay hear me out—
Swift, as I mus'd, the conﬂagration ſpread;
At once too ﬅrong, too general, to be quench'd.
I love, and I approve it, doat upon her,
Even think theſe minutes loﬅ I talk with thee.
Heavens! what emotions have poeſs'd my ſoul!
Snatch'd by a moment into years of paon.
NARVA.
Ah Mania!—
MASINISSA.
Argue not againﬅ me.
Talk down the circling winds that lift the deſart;
And, touch'd by Heaven, when all the foreﬅs blaze,
Talk down the ﬂame, but not my ﬅronger love.
I have for love a thouſand thouſand reaſons,
Dear to the heart, and potent o'er the ſoul.
My ready thoughts all ring, reﬅleſs all,
Are a perpetual ſpring of tenderneſs;
Oh! Sophonia! Sophonia! oh!
NARVA.
Is this deceitful day then come to nought?
This day, that ſet thee on a double throne?
That gave thee Syphax chain'd, thy deadly foe?
With perfe conqueﬅ crown'd thee, perfe glory?
Is it ſo ſoon eclips'd? and does yon ſun,
Yon ſetting ſun, who this fair morning ſaw thee
Ride through the ranks of long extended war,
As radiant as himſelf; with every glance
Wheeling the pointed ﬁles; and, when the ﬅorm
Began, beheld thee tread the ring ſurge
Of battle high, and drive it on the foe;
Does he now, bluing, ſee thee ſunk ſo weak?
Caught in a ſmile? the captive of a look?
I cannot name it without tears.
MASINISSA.
Away!
I'm ck of war, of the deﬅroying trade,
Smooth'd o'er, and gilded with the name of glory.
Thou need'ﬅ not ſpread the martial ﬁeld to me;
My happier eyes are turn'd another way,
Behold it not; or, if they do, behold it
Shrunk up, far oﬀ, a vionary ſcene;
As to the waking man appears the dream.
NARVA.
Or rather as realities appear,
The virtue, pomp, and dignities of life,
In ck diſorder'd dreams,
MASINISSA.
Think not I ſcorn
The ta of heroes, when oppreon rages,
And lawleſs violence confounds the world.
Who would not bleed with tranſport for his country,
Tear every dear relation from his heart,
And greatly die to make a people happy;
Ought not to taﬅe of happineſs himſelf,
And is low-ſoul'd indeed—But ſure, my friend,
There is a time for love, or life were vile!
A ckly circle of revolving days,
Led on by hope, with ſenſeleſs hurry ﬁll'd,
And clos'd by diſappointment. Round and round,
Still hope for ever wheels the daily cheat;
Impudent hope! unjoyous madneſs all!
Till lóve comes ﬅealing in, with his kind hours,
His healing lips, his cordial ſweets, his cares.
Infung joy, his joys ineﬀable!
That make the poor account of life compleat,
And juﬅify the Gods.
NARVA.
Miﬅaken Prince,
I blame not love. But—
MASINISSA.
Slander not my paon.
I've ſuﬀer'd thee too far.—Take heed, old man.—
Love will not bear an accuſation, Narva.
NARVA.
I'll ſpeak the truth, when truth and friendip call,
Nor fear thy frown unkind.—Thou haﬅ no right
To Sophonia; e belongs to Rome.
MASINISSA.
Ha! e belongs to Rome.—'Tis true—My thoughts
Where have you wander'd, not to think of this?
Think e'er I promis'd? e'er I lov'd?—Confuon!
I know not what I ſay—I ould have lov'd,
Tho' Jove in muttering thunder had forbid it.
But Rome will not refuſe ſo ſmall a boon,
Whoſe gifts are kingdoms; Rome muﬅ grant it ſure,
One captive to my wi, one poor requeﬅ,
So ſmall to them, but oh ſo dear to me!
Here let my heart conﬁde.
NARVA.
Deluve love!
Thro' what wild projes is the frantick mind
Beguil'd by thee?—And think'ﬅ thou that the Romans,
The ſenators of Rome, theſe gods on earth,
Wiſe, ﬅeady to the right, ſeverely juﬅ,
All incorrupt, and like eternal fate
Not to be mov'd, will liﬅen to the gh
Of idle love? They, when their country calls,
Who know no pain, no tenderneſs, no joy,
But bid their children bleed before their eyes;
That they'll regard the light fantaﬅick pangs
Of a fond heart? and with thy kingdom give thee
Their moﬅ inveterate foe; from their ﬁrm de,
Like Syphax, to delude thee? and the point
Of their own bounty on themſelves to turn?
Thou canﬅ not hope it ſure.—Impoble!
MASINISSA.
What all I do?—Be now the friend exerted.
For love and honour preſs me; love and honour,
All that is dear and excellent in life,
All that or ſooths the man or lifts the heroe,
Bind my ſoul deep.
NARVA.
Ra was your vow, my lord.
I know not what to counſel.—When you vow'd,
You vow'd what was not in your power to grant;
And therefore 'tis not binding.
MASINISSA.
Never! Never!
Oh never will I falfy that vow!
E'er then deﬅruion ſeize me! Yes, ye Romans,
If it be ſo, there, take your kingdoms back,
Your royal gewgaws, all for Sophonia!
Hold,—Let me think a while—It all be ſo!
By all th'inſpiring gods that prompt my thought!
This very night all ſolemnize our vows;
And the next joyous ſun, that vits Afric,
See Sophonia ſeated on my throne.—
Then if they ſpare her not,—not ſpare my queen,—
Perdition on their ﬅubborn pride call'd virtue!
Be theirs the world, but Sophonia mine!
NARVA.
And is it poble, ye Gods, that rule us!
Can Mania in his pride of youth,
In his meridian glory ining wide,
The light of Afric, and the friend of Scipio;
He take a woman to the nuptial bed,
Who ſcorn'd him for a tyrant, old, and peevi,
His rancorous foe? and gave her untouch'd bloom,
Her ſpring of charms to Syphax?
MASINISSA.
Horrid friendip!
This, this, has thrown a ſerpent to my heart;
While it o'erﬂow'd with tenderneſs, with joy,
With all the ſweetneſs of exulting love.
Now nought but gall is there, and burning poiſon!
Yes, it was ſo!—Curſe on her vain ambition!
What had her medling ſex to do with ﬅates?
The Buneſs of men! For him! for Syphax!
Forſook for him! my love for his groſs paon!
The thought is hell!—Oh I had treaſur'd up
A world of indignation, years of ſcorn;
But her ſad ſuppliant witchcraft ſooth'd it down.
Where is e now? That it may burﬅ upon her;
Bear her unbounded from me, down the torrent,
Far, far away! And tho' my plighted faith,
Shall ſave her from the Romans, yet to tell her,
That I will never, never ſee her more!
Ha! there e comes.—Pernicious fair one!—Leave me.
SCENE III.
SOPHONISBA, MASINISSA.
SOPHONISBA.
Forgive this quick return.—The rage, confuon,
And mingled paons of this luckleſs day,
Made me forget another warm requeﬅ
I had to beg of generous Mania;
For oh to whom, ſave to the generous, can
The miſerable ﬂy?—But much diﬅurb'd
You look, and ſcowl upon me a denial.
Repentance frowns on your contraed brow.
Already, weary of my nking fate,
You ſeem to droop; and for unhappy Syphax
I all implore in vain.
MASINISSA.
For Syphax? vengeance!
And canﬅ thou mention him? Oh grant me breath!
SOPHONISBA.
I know, young prince, how deep he has prov ok'd thee;
How keen he ſought thy youth; thro' what a ﬁre
Of great diﬅreſs, from which you come the brighter.
On dull indiﬀerent objes, or perhaps
Diik'd a little, 'tis but common bounty
To ower relief; but when our bittereﬅ foe
Lies ſunk, diſarm'd, and deſolate, then! then!
To feel the mercies of a pitying God,
To raiſe him from the duﬅ, and that beﬅ way
To triumph o'er him, is heroic goodneſs.
Oh let unhappy Syphax touch thy heart,
Viorious Mania!
MASINISSA.
Monﬅrous this!
Still doﬅ thou blaﬅ me with that curſed name!
The very name thy conſcious guilt ould un.
Oh had he heap'd all ills upon my head,
While it was young, and for the ﬅorm unﬁt;
Had he but driven me from my native throne,
From regal pomp and luxury, to dwell
Among the foreﬅ beaﬅs; to bear the beam
Of red Numidian ſuns, and the rank dew
Of cold unelter'd nights; to mix with wolves,
To hunt with hungry tygers for my prey,
And thirﬅ with Dipſas on the burning ſand;
I could have thank'd him for his angry leon;
The fair occaon that his rage aﬀorded
Of learning patience, fortitude, and hope,
Still ring ﬅronger on incumbent fate,
And all that try'd humanity can diate.
But there is one curs'd bitterneſs behind,
One injury, the man can never pardon;
That ſcorches up the tear in pity's eye,
And even ſweet mercy's ſelf converts to gall.
I cannot—will not name it—Heart of angui!
Down! down!
SOPHONISBA.
Ah! whence this ſudden ﬅorm? this madneſs,
That hurries all thy ſoul?
MASINISSA.
And doﬅ thou a?
A thy own faithleſs heart; ſnatch'd from my Vows,
From the warm wies of my ſpringing youth,
And given to that old hated monﬅer, Syphax.
Perﬁdious Sophonia!
SOPHONISBA.
Nay no more.
With too much truth I can return thy charge.
Why didﬅ thou drive me to that cruel choice?
Why leave me, with my country, to deﬅruion?
Why break thy love? thy faith? and join the Romans?
MASINISSA.
By heavens! the Romans were my better genius,
Sav'd me from fate, and form'd my youth to glory;
But for the Romans I had been a ſavage,
A wretch like Syphax, a forgotten thing,
The tool of Carthage.
SOPHONISBA.
Meddle not with Carthage,
Impatient youth, for that I will not bear;
Tho' here I were a thouſand fold thy ave.
Not one baſe word of Carthage—on thy ſoul!
MASINISSA.
How vain thy phrenzy! Go, command thy aves,
Thy fools, thy Syphaxes; but I will ſpeak,
Speak loud of Carthage, call it falſe, ungenerous,
—Yet all I check me, nce it is thy country?
While the Romans are the light, the glory—
SOPHONISBA.
Romans!
Perdition on the Romans!—and almoﬅ
On the too—Romans are the ſcourge
Of the red world, deﬅroyers of mankind,
The ruﬃans, ravagers of earth; and all
Beneath the ſmooth dimulating ma
Of juﬅice, and compaon; as if ave
Was but another name for civiliz'd.
All vengeance on the Romans!—While fair Carthage
Unblemi'd riſes on the baſe of commerce;
And as of heaven nought but the general winds,
And common tides, to carry plenty, joy,
Civility, and grandeur, round the world.
MASINISSA.
No more compare them! for the gods themſelves
Declare for Rome.
SOPHONISBA.
It was not always ſo.
The gods declar'd for Hannibal; when Italy
Blaz'd all around him, all her ﬅreams ran blood,
All her incarnate vales were vile with death;
And when at Trebia, Thraſymene, and Cannae,
The Carthaginian ſword with Roman blood
Was drunk—Oh that he then, on that dread day,
While lifeleſs conﬅernation blacken'd Rome,
Had raz'd th' accurſed city to the ground,
And ſav'd the world!—When will it come again,
A day ſo glorious, and ſo big with vengeance,
On thoſe my ſoul abhors?
MASINISSA.
Avert 
〈◊〉
heaven!
The Romans not enave, but ſave the world
From Carthaginian rage.—
SOPHONISBA.
I'll bear no more!
Nor tenderneſs, nor life, nor liberty,
Nothing all make me bear it.—Peri Rome!
And all her menial friends!—Yes, rather, rather,
Deteﬅed as ye are, ye Romans, take me,
Oh pitying take me to your nobler chains!
And ſave me from this abje youth, your ave!
—How canﬅ thou kill me thus?—
MASINISSA.
I meant it not.
I only meant to tell thee, haughty fair one!
How this alone might bind me to the Romans;
That, in a frail and iding hour, they ſnatch'd me
From the perdition of thy love; which fell,
Like baleful lightning, where I moﬅ could wi,
And prov'd deﬅruion to my mortal foe.
Oh pleang! fortunate!
SOPHONISBA.
I thank them too.
By heavens! for once, I love them; nce they turn'd
My better thoughts from thee, thou—But I will not
Give thee the name, thy mean ſervility
From my juﬅ ſcorn deſerves.
MASINISSA.
Oh freely call me,
By every name thy fury can inſpire;
Enrich me with contempt—I love no more—
It will not hurt me, Sophonia.—Love,
Long nce I gave it to the pang winds,
And would not be a lover for the world.
A lover is the very fool of nature;
Made ck by his own wantonneſs of thought,
His feaver'd fancy: while, to your own charms
Imputing all, you ſwell with boundleſs pride.
Shame on the wretch! who ould be driven from men,
To live with Aan aves, in one ſoft herd,
All wretched, all ridiculous together.
For me, this moment, here I mean to bid
Farewel, a glad farewel to love and thee.
SOPHONISBA.
With all my ſoul, farewel!—Yet, ere you go;
Know that my ſpirit burns as high as thine,
As high to glory, and as low to love.
Thy promiſes are void; and I abſolve thee,
Here in the preſence of the liﬅning gods.—
Take thy repented vows—To proud Cornelia
I'd rather be a ave, to Scipio's mother;
Than queen of all Numidia, by the favour
Of him, who dares inſult the helpleſs thus.
(Paung.)
Still doﬅ thou ﬅay? behold me then again,
Hopeleſs, and wild, a loﬅ abandon'd ave.
And now thy brutal purpoſe muﬅ be gain'd.
Away, thou cruel, and ungenerous, go!
MASINISSA.
No, not for worlds would I reſume my vow!
Dionour blaﬅ me then! all kind of ills
Fill up my cup of bitterneſs, and ame!
When I regn thee to triumphant Rome.
Oh lean not thus dejeed on the ground!
The ght is miſery.—what roots me here?
(Ade)
Alas! I have urg'd my fooli heart too far;
And love depreſs'd, recoils with greater force.
Oh Sophonia!
SOPHONISBA.
By thy pride e dies.
Inhuman prince!
MASINISSA.
Thine is the conqueﬅ, nature!
By heaven and earth! I cannot hold it more.
Wretch that I was! to cru th' unhappy thus;
The faireﬅ too, the deareﬅ of her ſex!
For whom my ſoul could dye!—Turn, quickly turn,
O Sophonia! my belov'd! my glory!
Turn and forgive the violence of love,
Of love that knows no bounds!
SOPHONISBA.
And can it be?
Can that ſoft paon prove ſo ﬁerce of heart,
As on the tears of miſery, the ghs
Of death, to 
〈◊〉
? to torture what it loves?
MASINISSA.
Yes it can be, thou goddeſs of my ſoul!
Whoſe each emotion is but varied love,
All over love, its powers, its paons, all:
Its anger, indignation, fury, love;
Its pride, diſdain, even deteﬅation, love;
And when it, wild, reſolves to love no more,
Then is the triumph of exceve love.
Didﬅ thou not mark me? mark the dubious rage,
That tore my heart with angui while I talk'd?
Thou didﬅ; and muﬅ forgive ſo kind a fault.
What would thy trembling lips?
SOPHONISBA.
That I muﬅ die.
For ſuch another ﬅorm, ſo much contempt
Thrown out on Carthage, ſo much Praiſe on Rome,
Were worſe than death. Why ould I longer tire
My weary fate? The moﬅ relentleſs Roman
What could he more?
MASINISSA.
Oh Sophonia, hear!
See me thy ſuppliant now. Talk not of death.
I have no life but thee.—Alas! Alas!
Hadﬅ thou a little tenderneſs for me,
The ſmalleﬅ part of what I feel, thou wouldﬅ—
What wouldﬅ thou not forgive? But how indeed
How can I hope it? Yet I from this moment,
Will ſo devote my being to thy pleaſure,
So live alone to gain thee; that thou muﬅ,
If there is human nature in thy breaﬅ,
Feel ſome relenting warmth.
SOPHONISBA.
Well, well, 'tis paﬅ.
To be inexorable suits not aves.
MASINISSA.
Spare, ſpare that word; it ﬅabs me to the ſoul;
My crown, my life, and liberty are thine.
Oh give my paon way! My heart is full,
Oppreſs'd by love; and I could number tears,
With all the dews that ſprinkle o'er the morn;
While thus with thee converng, thus with thee
Even happy to diﬅreſs.—Enough, enough,
Have we been cheated by the trick of ﬅate,
For Rome and Carthage ſuﬀer'd much too long;
And led, by gaudy fantoms, wander'd far,
Far from our bliſs. But now nce met again,
Since here I hold thee, circle all perfeion,
The prize of life! nce fate too prees hard,
Since Rome and avery drive thee to the brink;
Let this immediate night exchange our vows,
Secure my bliſs, our future fortunes blend,
Set thee, the queen of beauty, on my throne,
And make it doubly mine.—A wretched gift
To what my love could give!
SOPHONISBA.
What? marry thee,
This night?
MASINISSA.
Thou dear one! yes, this very night,
Let injur'd Hymen have his rights reﬅor'd,
And bind our broken vows.—Think, ſerious, think!
On what I plead.—A thouſand reaſons urge.—
Captivity diolves thy former marriage;
And if 'tis with the meaneﬅ vulgar ſo,
Can Sophonia to a ave, to Syphax,
The moﬅ exalted of her ſex, be bound?
Bedes it is the beﬅ, perhaps ſole way,
To ſave thee from the Romans; and muﬅ ſure
Bar their pretenons: or if ruin comes,
To peri with thee is to peri happy.
SOPHONISBA.
Yet muﬅ I ﬅill inﬅ.—
MASINISSA.
It all be ſo.
I know thy purpoſe; it would plead for Syphax.
He all have all, thou deareﬅ! all have all,
Crowns, triﬂes, kingdoms, all again, but thee,
But thee, thou more than all!
SOPHONISBA.
(Ade)
Bear witneſs heaven!
This is alone for Carthage.
(To him)
Gain'd by goodneſs,
I may be thine. Expe no love, no ghing.
Perhaps, hereafter, I may learn again
To hold thee dear. If on theſe terms thou canﬅ,
Here take me, take me, to thy wies.
MASINISSA.
Yes,
Yes, Sophonia! as a wretch takes life
From oﬀ the bleeding rack.—All wild with joy,
Thus hold thee, preſs thee, to my bounding heart;
And bleſs the bounteous Gods.—Can heaven give more?
Oh happy! happy! happy!—Come, my fair,
This ready minute ſees thy will perform'd;
From Syphax knocks his chains; and I my ſelf,
Even in his favour, will requeﬅ the Romans.
Oh, thou haﬅ ſmil'd my paons into peace!
So, while conﬂiing winds embroil'd the Seas,
In perfe bloom, warm with immortal blood,
Young Venus rear'd her o'er the raging ﬂood;
She ſmil'd around, like thine her beauties glow'd;
When ſmooth, in gentle ſwells, the ſurges ﬂow'd;
Sunk, by degrees, into a liquid plain;
And one bright calm ſat trembling on the main.
The End of the Third A.
ACT IV. SCENE I.
SOPHONISBA, PHOENISSA.
PHOENISSA.
HAIL queen of Maſaeſylia once again!
And fair Maylia join'd! This ring day
Saw Sophonia, from the height of life,
Thrown to the very brink of avery:
State, honours, armies vanqui'd; nothing left
But her own great unconquerable mind.
And yet, ere evening comes, to larger power
Reﬅor'd, I ſee my royal friend; and kneel
In grateful homage to the Gods, and her.
Ye Powers, what awful changes often mark
The fortunes of the great!
SOPHONISBA.
Phœnia, true;
'Tis awful all, the wonderous work of fate.
But ah! this ſudden marriage damps my ſoul;
I like it not, that wild precipitance
Of youth, that ardor, that impetuous ﬅream
In which his love return'd. At ﬁrﬅ, my friend,
He vainly rag'd with diſappointed love;
And, as the haﬅy ﬅorm ſubded, then
To ſoftneſs varied, to returning fondneſs,
To ghs, to tears, to ſupplicating vows;
But all his vows were idle, till at laﬅ
He ook my heart by Rome.—To be his queen,
Could only ſave me from their horrid power.
And there is madneſs in that thought, enough
In that ﬅrong thought alone to make me run
From nature.
PHOENISSA.
Was it not auſpicious, madam?
Juﬅ as we hop'd? juﬅ as our wies plan'd?
Nor let your ſpirit nk. Your ſerious hours,
When you behold the Roman ravage check'd,
From their enchantment Mania freed,
And Carthage miﬅreſs of the world again,
This marriage will approve: then will it riſe
In all its glory, virtuous, wiſe and great,
While happy nations, then deliver'd, join
Their loud acclaim. And, had the white occaon
Negleed ﬂown, where now had been your hopes?
Your liberty? your country? where your all?
Think well of this, think that, think every way,
And Sophonia cannot but exult
In what is done.
SOPHONISBA.
So may my hopes ſucceed!
As love alone to Carthage, to the public,
Led me a marriage-viim to the temple,
And juﬅiﬁes my vows.—Ha! Syphax here!
What would his rage with me?—Phœnia, ﬅay.
But this one tryal more—Heroic truth,
Support me now!
SCENE II.
SYPHAX, SOPHONISBA, PHOENISSA.
SYPHAX.
You ſeem to ﬂy me, madam,
To un my gratulations.—Here I come,
To join the general joy; and I, ſure I,
Who have to dotage, have to ruin lov'd you,
Muﬅ take a tender part in your ſucceſs,
In your recover'd ﬅate.
SOPHONISBA.
'Tis very well.
I thank you, r.
SYPHAX.
And gentle Mania,
Say, will he prove a very coming fool?
All pliant, all devoted to your will?
A glorious wretch like Syphax?—Ha! not mov'd!
Speak, thou perﬁdious! canﬅ thou bear it thus?
With ſuch a ﬅeady countenance? canﬅ thou
Here ſee the man thou haﬅ ſo groy wrong'd,
And yet not nk in ame? And yet not ake
In every guilty nerve?
SOPHONISBA.
What have I done,
That I ould tremble? that I ould not dare
To bear thy preſence? Was my heart to blame,
I'd tremble for my ſelf, and not for thee,
Proud man! Nor would I live to be aam'd.
My ſoul it ſelf would die, could the leaﬅ ame
On her unſpotted fame be juﬅly caﬅ:
For of all evils, to the generous, ame
Is the laﬅ deadly-pang.—But you behold
My late engagement with a jealous, falſe,
And ſelﬁ eye.
SYPHAX.
Avenging Juno, hear!
And canﬅ thou think to juﬅify thy ſelf?
I blu to hear thee, traitreſs!
SOPHONISBA.
O my ſoul!
Canﬅ thou hear this, this baſe opprobrious language,
And yet be tamely calm?—Well, well, for once
It all be ſo—in pity to thy madneſs—
Impatient ſpirit down!—Yes, Syphax, yes,
Yes I will greatly juﬅify my ſelf;
Even by the conſort of the thundering Jove,
Who binds the holy marriage-vow, be judg'd.
And every public heart, not meanly loﬅ
In little low purſuits, to wretched ſelf
Not all devoted, will abſolve me too.
But in the tempeﬅ of the ſoul, when rage,
Loud indignation, unattending pride,
And jealouſy confound it, how can then
The nobler paons, how can they be heard?
Yet let me tell thee—
SYPHAX.
Thou canﬅ tell me nought.
Away! away! nought but illuon, falood—
SOPHONISBA.
My heart will burﬅ, in honour to my ſelf,
If here I ſpeak not; tho' they rage, I know,
Can never be convinc'd, yet all it be
Confounded.—And muﬅ I renounce my freedom?
Forgoe the power of doing general good?
Muﬅ yield my ſelf the ave, the barbarous triumph
Of inſolent, enrag'd, inveterate Rome?
And all for nothing but to grace thy fall?
Nay by my ſelf to peri for thy pleaſure?
For thee, the Romans may be mild to thee;
But I, a Carthaginian, I, whoſe blood
Holds unrelenting enmity to theirs;
Who have my ſelf much hurt them, and who live
Alone to work them woe; what, what can I
Hope from their vengeance, but the very dregs
Of the worﬅ fate, the bitterneſs of bondage?
Yet thou, thou kind man, wouldﬅ in thy generous love,
Wouldﬅ have me ſuﬀer that; be bound to thee,
For that dire end alone, beyond the ﬅretch
Of nature, and of law.
SYPHAX.
Confuon! Law!
I know the laws permit thee, the groſs laws
That rule the vulgar. I'm a captive, true;
And therefore may'ﬅ thou plead a ameful right
To leave me to my chains—But ſay, thou baſe one!
Ungrateful! ſay, for whom am I a captive?
For whom theſe many years with war, and death,
Defeats, and deſolation have I liv'd?
For whom has battle after battle bled?
For whom my crown, my kingdom, and my all,
Been vilely caﬅ away? For whom this day,
This very day, have I been ﬅain'd with aughter?
With yon laﬅ reeking ﬁeld?—For one, ye gods!
Who leaves me for the vior, for the wretch
I hold in utter endleſs deteﬅation.
Fire! fury! hell!—Oh I am richly paid!—
But thus it is to love a woman—Woman!
The ſource of all diſaﬅer, all perdition!
Man in himſelf is ſocial, would be happy,
Too happy; but the gods, to keep him down,
Curs'd him with woman! fond, enchanting, ſmooth,
And harmleſs ſeeming woman; while at heart
All poiſon, ſerpents, tygers, furies, all
That is deﬅruive, in one form combin'd,
And gilded o'er with beauty!
SOPHONISBA.
Hapleſs man!
I pity thee; this madneſs only ﬅirs
My boſom to compaon, not to rage.
Think as you liﬅ of our unhappy ſex,
Too much ſubjeed to your tyrant force;
Yet know that all, we were not all, at leaﬅ,
Form'd for your triﬂes, for your wanton hours.
Our paons too can ſometimes ſoar above
The houold ta agn'd us, can expand
Beyond the narrow ſphere of families,
And take in ﬅates into the panting heart,
As well as yours, ye partial to yourſelves!
And this is my ſupport, my joy, my glory,
The Conſcience that my heart abhors all baſeneſs,
And of all baſeneſs moﬅ ingratitude.
This ſure aﬀronted honour may declare,
With an unbluing cheek.
SYPHAX.
Falſe, falſe as Hell!
Falſe as your ſex! when it pretends to virtue.
You talk of honour, conſcience, patriotiſm.
A female patriot!—Vanity!—Abſurd!
Even doating dull credulity would laugh
To ſcorn your talk. Was ever Woman yet
Had any better purpoſe in her eye,
Than how to pleaſe her pride or wanton will?
In various apes, and various manners, all,
All the ſame plagues, or open, or conceal'd,
The bane of life!
SOPHONISBA.
Muﬅ I then, muﬅ I, Syphax,
Give thee a bitter proof of what I ſay?
I would not ſeem to heighten thy diﬅreſs,
Not in the leaﬅ inſult thee; thou art fallen,
So fate ſevere has will'd it, fallen by me.
I therefore have been patient; from another,
Such language, ſuch indignity, had ﬁr'd
My ſoul to madneſs. But nce driven ſo far,
I mu ﬅremind thy blind injurious rage
Of our unhappy Marriage.—
SYPHAX.
Horror!—Oh!
Blot it eternal night!
SOPHONISBA.
Allow me, Syphax!
Hear me but once! If what I here declare
Shines not with reaſon, and the cleareﬅ truth;
May I be baſe, deſpis'd, and dumb for ever!
I pray thee think, when unpropitious Hymen
Our hands united, how I ﬅood engag'd.
I need not mention what full well thou know'ﬅ.
But pray recal, was I not ﬂatter'd? young?
With blooming life elate, with the warm years
Of vanity? ſunk in a paon too,
Which few regn? Yet then I married thee,
Becauſe to Carthage deem'd a ﬅronger friend;
For that alone. On theſe conditions, ſay,
Didﬅ thou not take me, court me to thy throne?
Have I deceiv'd thee nce? Have I diembled?
To gain one purpoſe, 
〈◊〉
pretended what
I never felt? Thou 
〈…〉
ſay I have.
And if that 
〈…〉
inſpir'd
My marrying 
〈…〉
cannot now
Be wrong. Nay nce my native city wants
Aﬅance more, and nking calls for aid,
Muﬅ be more right—
SYPHAX.
This reaſoning is inſult!
SOPHONISBA.
I'm ſorry that thou doﬅ oblige me to it.
Then in a word take my full-open'd ſoul.
All love, but that of Carthage, I deſpiſe.
I formerly to Mania thee
Preferr'd not, nor to thee now Mania,
But Carthage to you both. And if preferring
Thouſands to one, a whole colleed people,
All nature's tenderneſs, whate'er is ſacred,
The liberty the welfare of a ﬅate,
To one man's frantic happineſs, be ame;
Here, Syphax, I invoke it on my head!
This ſet ade; I, careleſs of my ſelf,
And, ſcorning proſperous ﬅate, had ﬅill been thine,
In all the depth of miſery proudly thine!
But nce the public good, the law ſupreme,
Forbids it; I will leave thee with a kingdom,
The ſame I found thee, or not reign my ſelf.
Alas! I ſee thee hurt—Why cam'ﬅ thou here,
Thus to inﬂame thee more?
SYPHAX.
Why ſorcereſs? why?
Thou complication of all deadly miſchief!
Thou lying, ſoothing, ſpecious, charming fury!
I'll tell thee why—To breathe my great revenge;
To throw this load of burning madneſs from me;
To ﬅab thee!—
SOPHONISBA.
Ha!—
SYPHAX.
—And, ſpringing from thy heart,
To quench me with thy blood!
(Phœnia interpoſes)
SOPHONISBA.
Oﬀ, give me way!
Phœnia; tempt not thou his brutal rage.
Me, me, he dares not murder: if he dares,
Here let his fury ﬅrike; for I dare die.
What holds thy trembling point?
PHOENISSA.
Guards!
SOPHONISBA.
Seize the king.
But look you treat him well, with all the ﬅate
His dignity demands.
SYPHAX.
Goodneſs from thee
Is the worﬅ death,—The Roman trumpets!—Ha!
Now I bethink me, Rome will do me juﬅice.
Yes, I all ſee thee walk the ave of Rome;
Forget my wrongs, and glut me with the ght.
Be that my beﬅ revenge.
SOPHONISBA.
Inhuman! that,
If there is death in Afric, all not be.
SCENE III.
LAELIUS, SYPHAX.
LAELIUS.
Syphax! alas, how fallen! how chang'd! from what
I here beheld thee once in pomp, and ſplendor;
At that illuﬅrious interview, when Rome
And Carthage met beneath this very roof,
Their too great generals, Aſdrubal and Scipio,
To court thy friendip. Of the ſame repaﬅ
Both gracefully partook, and both reclin'd
On the ſame couch: for perſonal diﬅaﬅe
And hatred ſeldom burn between the brave.
Then the ſuperiour virtues of the Roman
Gain'd all thy heart. Even Aſdrubal himſelf,
With admiration ﬅruck and juﬅ deſpair,
Own'd him as dreadful at the ſocial feaﬅ
As in the battle. This thou may'ﬅ remember;
And how thy faith was given before the Gods,
And ſworn and ſeal'd to Scipio; yet how falſe
Thou nce has prov'd, I need not now recount:
But let thy ſuﬀerings for thy guilt attone,
The captive for the king. A Roman tongue
Scorns to purſue the triumph of the ſword,
With mean upbraidings.
SYPHAX.
Laelius, 'tis too true.
Curſe on the cauſe!
LAELIUS.
But where is Mania?
The brave young vior, the Numidian Roman!
Where is he? that my joy, my glad applauſe,
From envy pure, may hail his happy ﬅate.
Why that contemtuous ſmile?
SYPHAX.
Too credulous Roman,
I ſmile to think how that this Mania,
This Rome-devoted heroe, muﬅ ﬅill more
Attra thy praiſes by a late exploit.
In every thing ſucceſsful.
LAELIUS.
What is this?
Theſe public outs? A ﬅrange unuſual joy
O'er all the captive city blazes wide.
What wanton riot reigns to night in Cirtha?
Within theſe conquer'd walls?
SYPHAX.
This, Laelius, is
A night of triumph o'er my conqueror,
O'er Mania.
LAELIUS.
Mania! How?
SYPHAX.
Why he to night is married to my queen.
LAELIUS.
Impoble!—
SYPHAX.
Yes, e, the fury! e,
Who put the nuptial torch into my hand,
That ſet my throne, my palace, and my kingdom,
All in a blaze—e now has ſeiz'd on him.
Will turn him ſoon from Rome—I know her power,
Her lips diﬅil unconquerable poiſon.
O glorious thought!—will nk this hated youth,
Will cru him deep, beneath the mighty ruins
Of falling Carthage.
LAELIUS.
Can it be? Amazement!
SYPHAX.
Nay learn it from himſelf.—He comes—Away!
Ye furies ſnatch me from his ght! For hell,
Its tortures all are gentle to the preſence
Of a triumphant rival?
LAELIUS.
What is man?
SCENE IV.
MASINISSA, LAELIUS.
MASINISSA.
Thou more than partner of this glorious day!
Which has from Carthage torn her chief ſupport,
And tottering left her, I rejoice to ſee thee—
To Cirtha welcome, Laelius.—Thy brave legions
Now taﬅe the ſweet repoſe by valour purchas'd;
This city pours refrement on their toils.
I order'd Narva—
LAELIUS.
Thanks to Mania.
All that is well. I here obſerv'd the king,
But looſely guarded. True, indeed, from him
There is not much to fear. The dangerous ſpirit,
Still not unworthy fear, our matchleſs prize,
Is his imperious queen, is Sophonia.
The pride, the rage of Carthage live in her.
How? where is e?
MASINISSA.
She, Laelius? In my care.
Think not of her. I'll anſwer for her condu.
LAELIUS.
Yes, if in chains. Till then, believe me, prince,
It were as hopeful anſwering for the winds,
That their broad pinions will not rouze the deſart;
Or that the darted Lightning will be harmleſs;
As promiſe peace from her.—But why ſo dark?
You ift your place, your countenance grows warm.
It is not uſual this in Mania.
Pray what oﬀence can aing for the queen,
The Roman captive give?
MASINISSA.
Laelius, no more.
You know my marriage.—Syphax has been buſy—
It is unkind to dally with my paon.
LAELIUS.
Ah, Mania! was it then for this,
Thy hurry hither from the recent battle?
Is the ﬁrﬅ inﬅance of the Roman bounty
Thus, thus abus'd? They give thee back thy kingdom;
And in return are of their captive robb'd;
Of all they valued, Sophonia.—
MASINISSA.
Robb'd!
How, Laelius? Robb'd!
LAELIUS.
Yes, Mania, robb'd.
What is it elſe? But I, this very night,
Will here aert the majeﬅy of Rome;
And, mark me, tear her from the nuptial bed.
MASINISSA.
Oh Gods! oh patience! As ſoon, ﬁery Roman!
As ſoon thy rage might from her azure ſphere
Tear yonder moon.—The man who ſeizes her,
Shall ſet his foot ﬁrﬅ on my bleeding heart.
Of that be ſure.—And is it thus ye treat
Your ﬁrm allies? Thus kings in friendip with you?
Of human paons ﬅrip them?—Slaves indeed!
If thus deny'd the common privilege
Of nature, what the weakeﬅ creatures claim,
A right to what they love.
LAELIUS.
Out! out!—For ame!
This paon makes thee blind. Here is a war,
Which deſolates the nations, has almoﬅ
Laid waﬅe the world. How many widows, orphans,
And love-lorn virgins pine for it in Rome!
Even her great ſenate droops; her nobles fail;
Her Circus rinks; her every luﬅre thins,
Nature her ſelf, by frequent prodigies,
Seems at this havock of her works to cken:
And our Auſonian plains are now become
A horror to the ght: At each ſad ﬅep,
Remembrance weeps. Yet her, the greateﬅ prize
It hitherto has yielded; her, whoſe charms
Are only turn'd to whet its cruel point;
Thou to thy wedded breaﬅ haﬅ taken her:
Haﬅ purchas'd thee her beauties by a ſea
Of thy proteor's blood; and on a throne
Set her, this day recover'd by their arms.
Canﬅ thou thy ſelf, thou, think of it with patience?
Nor to a Roman mention King.—A Roman
Would ſcorn to be a king.—The Roman people
Took liberty from out the very duﬅ,
And for great ages urg'd it to the ies,
The dread of kings!
MASINISSA.
Be not ſo haughty, Laelius.
It ſcarce becomes the gentle Scipio's friend;
Suits not thy wonted eaſe, the tender manners
I ﬅill have mark'd in thee. I honour Rome;
But honour too my ſelf, my vows, my queen:
Nor will, nor can, I tamely hear thee threaten
To ſeize her like a ave.
LAELIUS.
I will be calm.
This thy ra deed, this unexpeed ock,
Such a peculiar injury to me,
Thy friend and fellow-ſoldier, has perhaps
Snatch'd me too far. For haﬅ thou not dionour'd,
By this laﬅ aion, a ſucceſsful war?
Our common charge, entruﬅed us by Scipio.
MASINISSA.
Ay, there it is.—Has not thy vain ambition,
(Oh where is friendip!) plan'd her for thy triumph?
To think on't, death! to think it is dionour.
At ſuch a ght, the warriour's eye might wet
His burning cheek; and all the Roman matrons,
Who line the laurel'd way, aam'd, and fad,
Turn from a captive brighter than themſelves.
But Scipio will be milder.
LAELIUS.
I diſdain
This thy ſurmiſe, and give it up to Scipio.
Thoſe paons are not comely.—Here to morrow
Comes the proconſul. Mean time, Mania,
Ah harden not thy ſelf in ﬂattering hope!
Scipio is mild, but ﬅeady.—Ha! the queen.
I think e hates a Roman.—and will leave thee.
SCENE V.
SOPHONISBA, MASINISSA.
SOPHONISBA.
Was not that Roman Laelius, as I enter'd,
Who parted gloomy hence?
MASINISSA.
Madam, the ſame.
SOPHONISBA.
Unhappy Afric! nce theſe haughty Romans
Have in this lordly manner trod thy courts.
I read his fre reproaches in thy face;
The leon'd pupil in thy fallen look,
In that forc'd ſmile which ckens on thy cheek.
MASINISSA.
Oh ſay not ſo, thou rapture of my ſoul!
For while I ſee thee, meditate thy charms,
I ſmile as cordial as the ſun in may;
Deep from the heart, in every ſenſe of joy
I fondly ſmile.
SOPHONISBA.
Nay, tell me, Mania;
How feels their tyranny, when 'tis brought home?
When, lawleſs grown, it touches what is dear?
Pomp for a while may dazle thoughtleſs man,
Falſe glory blind him; but there is a time,
When ev'n the ave in heart will ſpurn his chains,
Nor know ſubmion more.—What ſaid his pride?
MASINISSA.
His diſappointment for a moment only
Burﬅ in vain paon▪ and—
SOPHONISBA.
You ﬅood aba
••
'd;
You bore his threats, and tamely-lent heard him,
Heard the ﬁerce Roman mark me for his triumph.
Oh bitter!
MASINISSA.
Bani that unkind ſuſpicion.
The thought enﬂam'd my ſoul. I vow'd my life,
My laﬅ Maylian to the ſword, ere he
Shou'd touch thy freedom with the leaﬅ dionour.
But that from Scipio—
SOPHONISBA.
Scipio!
MASINISSA.
That from him—
SOPHONISBA.
I tell thee, Mania, if from him
I gain my freedom, from my ſelf conceal it.
I all diſdain ſuch freedom.
MASINISSA.
Sophonia!
Thou all my heart holds precious! doubt no more.
Nor Rome, nor Scipio, nor a world combin'd
Shall tear thee from me; till outﬅretch'd I lie,
A nameleſs wretch!
SOPHONISBA.
If thy proteion fails,
Of this at leaﬅ be ſure, be very ſure,
To give me timely death.
MASINISSA.
Ceaſe thus to talk,
Of death of Romans, of unkind Ambition.
My ſofter thoughts thoſe rugged themes refuſe,
Can turn alone to love.—All, all, but thee,
All nature is a pang dream to me.
Fix'd in my view, thou doﬅ for ever ine,
Thy form forth-beaming from the ſoul divine▪
A ſpirit thine, which mortals might adore;
Deſping love, and thence creating more.
Thou the high paons, I the tender prove,
Thy heart was form'd for glory, mine for love.
The End of the Fourth A.
ACT V. SCENE I.
MASINISSA, NARVA.
MASINISSA.
HAil to the joyous day! With purple clouds,
The whole horizon glows. The breezy Spring
Stands looſely-ﬂoating on the mountain-top,
And deals her ſweets around. The ſun too ſeems,
As conſcious of my joy, with brighter eye
To look abroad the world; and all things ſmile
Like Sophonia. Love and friendip ſure
Have mark'd this day from out their choiceﬅ ﬅores;
For beauty rais'd by dignity and virtue,
With all the graces all the loves embelli'd;
Oh Sophonia's mine! and Scipio comes!
NARVA.
My lord, the trumpets ſpeak his near approach.
MASINISSA.
I want his ſecret audience—Leave us, Narva.
SCENE II.
SCIPIO, MASINISSA.
MASINISSA.
Scipio! more welcome than my tongue can ſpeak!
Oh greatly, dearly welcome!
SCIPIO.
Mania!
My heart beats back thy joy.—A happy friend,
With laurel green, with conqueﬅ crown'd, and glory;
Rais'd by his prudence, fortitude, and valour,
O'er all his foes; and on his native throne,
Amidﬅ his reſcu'd outing ſubjes, ſet:
Say, can the gods in lavi bounty give
A ght more pleang?
MASINSSSA.
My great friend! and patron!
It was thy timely thy reﬅoring arm,
That brought me from the fearful deſart-life;
To live again in ﬅate, and purple ſplendor.
And now I wield the ſceptre of my fathers,
See my dear people from the tyrant's ſcourge,
From Syphax freed; I hear their glad applauſes;
And, to compleat my happineſs, have gain'd
A friend worth all. O gratitude, eﬅeem,
And love like mine, with what divine delight
Ye ﬁll the heart!
SCIPIO.
Heroic youth! thy virtue
Has earn'd whate'er thy fortune can beﬅow.
It was thy patience, Mania, patience,
A champion clad in ﬅeel, that in the waﬅe
Attended ﬅill thy ﬅep, and ſav'd my friend
For better days. What cannot patience do?
A great degn is ſeldom ſnatch'd at once;
'Tis patience heaves it on. From ſavage nature,
'Tis patience that has built up human life,
The nurſe of arts! and Rome exalts her head
An everlaﬅing monument of patience.
MASINISSA.
If I have that, or any virtue, Scipio,
'Tis copy'd all from thee.
SCIPIO.
No Mania,
'Tis all unborrow'd, the ſpontaneous growth
Of nature in thy breaﬅ.—Friendip for once
Muﬅ, tho' thou blueﬅ, wear a liberal tongue;
Muﬅ tell thee, noble youth, that long experience,
In councils, battles, many a hard event,
Has found thee ﬅill ſo conﬅant, ſo ncere,
So wiſe, ſo brave, ſo generous, ſo humane,
So well attemper'd, and ſo ﬁtly turn'd
For what is either great or good in life,
As caﬅs diﬅingui'd honour on thy country;
And cannot but endear thee to the Romans.
For me, I think my labours all repaid,
My wars in Afric. Mania's friendip
Smiles at my ſoul. Be that my deareﬅ triumph,
To have aﬅed thy forlorn eﬅate,
And lent a happy hand in raing thee
To thy paternal throne, uſurp'd by Syphax.
The greateﬅ ſervice could be done my country,
Diﬅraed Afric, and Mankind in general,
Was aiding ſure thy cauſe. To put the power,
The public power, into the good man's hand,
Is giving plenty, life, and joy to millions.
But has my friend, nce late we parted armies;
Since he with Laelius aed ſuch a brave,
Auſpicious part againﬅ the common foe;
Has he been blameleſs quite? has he conder'd,
How pleaſure often on the youthful heart,
Beneath the roſy ſoft diſguiſe of love;
(All ſweetneſs, ſmiles, and ſeeming innocence)
Steals unperceiv'd, and lays the vior low?
I would not, cannot, put thee to the pain—
—It pains me deeper—of the leaﬅ reproach.—
Let thy too faithful memory ſupply
The reﬅ.
(Paung)
Thy lence, that dejeed look,
That honeﬅ colour ﬂuing o'er thy cheek,
Impart thy better ſoul.
MASINISSA.
Oh my good lord!
Oh Scipio! Love has ſeiz'd me, tyrant love
Inthralls my ſoul. I am undone by love!
SCIPIO.
And art thou then to ruin reconcil'd?
Tam'd to deﬅruion? Wilt thou be undone?
Regn the towering thought? the vaﬅ degn,
With future glories big? the warriour's wreathe?
The glittering ﬁles? the trumpets ſprightly clang?
The praiſe of ſenates? an applauding world?
The patriot's ﬅatue, and the heroes triumph?
All for a gh? all for a ſoft embrace?
For a gay tranent fancy, Mania?
For ame, my friend! for honour's ſake, for glory!
Sit not with folded arms, deſpairing, weak,
And careleſs all, till certain ruin comes:
Like a ck virgin ghing to the gale,
Unconquerable love!
MASINISSA.
How chang'd indeed!
The time has been, when, ﬁr'd from Scipio's tongue,
My ſoul had mounted in a ﬂame with his.—
Where is ambition ﬂown? Hopeleſs attempt!
Can love like mine be quell'd? Can I forget
What ﬅill poees, charms my thoughts for ever
Throw ſcornful from me what I hold moﬅ dear?
Not feel the force of excellence? To joy
Be dead? And undelighted with delight?
Soft, let me think a moment—no! no! no!—
I am unequal to thy virtue, Scipio!
SCIPIO.
Fie, Mania, ﬁe! By heavens! I blu
At thy dejeion, this degenerate language.
What! peri for a woman! Ruin all,
All the fair deeds which an admiring world
Hopes from thy ring day; only to ſooth
A ﬅubborn fancy, a luxurious will?
How muﬅ it, think you, ſound in future ﬅory?
Young Mania was a virtuous prince,
And Afric ſmil'd beneath his early ray;
But that a Carthaginian captive came,
By whom untimely in the common fate
Of love he fell. The wiſe will ſcorn the page.
And all thy praiſe be ſome fond maid exclaiming,
Where are thoſe lovers now?—O rather, rather,
Had I ne'er ſeen the vital light of heaven,
Than like the vulgar live, and like them die!
Ambition ckens at the very thought.—
To puﬀ, and buﬅle here from day to day,
Loﬅ in the paons of inglorious life,
Joys which the careleſs brutes poeſs above us.
And when ſome years, each duller than another,
Are thus elaps'd, in nauſeous pangs to die;
And paſs away, like thoſe forgotten things,
That ſoon become as they had never been.
MASINISSA.
And am I dead to this?
SCIPIO.
The gods, young man,
Who train up heroes in misfortune's ſchool,
Have ook thee with adverty, with each
Illuﬅrious evil, that can raiſe, expand,
And fortify the mind. Thy rooted worth
Has ﬅood theſe wintry blaﬅs, grown ﬅronger by them.
Shall then in proſperous times, while all is mild,
All vernal, fair; and glory blows around thee;
Shall then the dead Serene of pleaſure come,
And lay thy faded honours in the duﬅ?
MASINISSA.
O gentle Scipio! ſpare me, ſpare my weakneſs.
SCIPIO.
Remember Hannibal—A gnal proof,
A fre example of deﬅruive pleaſure.
He was the dread of nations, once of Rome!
When from Bellona's boſom, nurs'd in camps,
And hard with toil, he down the rugged Alps
Ru'd in a torrent over Italy;
Unconquer'd, till the looſe delights of Capua
Sunk his viorious arm, his genius broke,
Perfum'd, and made a lover of the heroe.
And now he droops in Bruttium, fear'd no more,
Sinks on our borders like a ſcatter'd ﬅorm.
Remember him; and yet reſume thy ſpirit,
Ere it is quite diolv'd.
MASINISSA.
Shall Scipio ﬅoop,
Thus to regard, to teach me wiſdom thus;
And yet a ﬅupid angui at my heart
Repel whate'er he ſays?—But why, my lord,
Why ould we kill the beﬅ of paons, love?
It aids the heroe, bids ambition riſe,
Turns us to pleaſe, inſpires immortal deeds,
Even ſoftens brutes, and makes the good more good.
SCIPIO.
There is a holy tenderneſs indeed,
A nameleſs ſympathy, a fountain-love;
Branch'd inﬁnite from parents to their children,
From child to child, from kindred on to kindred,
In various ﬅreams, from citizen to citizen,
From friend to friend, from man to man in general;
That binds, ſupports, and ſweetens human life.
But is thy paon ſuch?—Liﬅ, Mania,
While I the hardeﬅ oﬃce of a friend
Diſcharge; and, with a neceary hand,
A hand tho' har at preſent really tender,
I paint this paon. And if then thou ﬅill
Art bent to ſooth it, I muﬅ ghing leave thee,
To what the Gods think ﬁt.
MASINISSA.
O never, Scipio!
O never leave me to my ſelf! Speak on.
I dread, and yet dere thy friendly hand.
SCIPIO.
I hope that Mania need not now
Be told, how much his happineſs is mine;
With what a warm benevolence I'd ſpring
To raiſe, conﬁrm it, to prevent his wies.
O luxury to think!—But while he rages,
Burns in a fever, all I let him quaﬀ
Delicious poiſon for a cooling draught,
In fooli pity to his thirﬅ? all I
Let a ſwift ﬂame conſume him as he eeps,
Becauſe his dreams are gay? all I indulge
A frenzy ﬂa'd from an infeious eye?
A ſudden impulſe unapprov'd by reaſon?
Nay by thy cool deliberate thought condemn'd?
Reſolv'd againﬅ?—A paon for a woman,
Who has abus'd thee baſely? left thy youth,
Thy love as ſweet as tender as the ſpring,
The blooming heroe for the hoary tyrant?
And now who makes thy eltering arms alone
Her laﬅ retreat, to ſave her from the vengeance,
Which even her very perﬁdy to thee
Has brought upon her head?—Nor is this all.—
A woman who will ply her deepeﬅ arts,
(Ah too prevailing, as appears already)
Will never reﬅ, till Syphax' fate is thine;
Till friendip weeping ﬂies; we join no more
In glorious deeds, and thou fall oﬀ from Rome?
I too could add, that there is ſomething mean,
Inhuman in thy paon. Does not Syphax,
While thou rejoiceﬅ, die? The generous heart
Should ſcorn a pleaſure which gives others pain.
If this, my friend, all this conder'd deep,
Allarm thee not, not rouze thy reſolution,
And call the heroe from his wanton umber,
Then Mania's loﬅ.
MASINISSA.
Oh, I am pierc'd!
In every thought am pierc'd! 'Tis all too true.—
I wi I could refuſe it.—Whither, whither,
Thro' what inchanted wilds have I been wandering?
They ſeem'd Elyum, the delightful plains,
The happy groves of heroes and of lovers:
But the divinity that breathes in thee
Has broke the charm, and I am in a deſart;
Far from the land of peace. It was but lately
That a pure joyous calm o'erſpread my ſoul,
And reaſon tun'd my paons into bliſs;
When love came hurrying in, and with ra hand,
Mix'd them delirious, till they now ferment
To miſery.—There is no reaſoning down
This deep, deep angui! this continual pang!
A thouſand things! whene'er my raptur'd thought
Runs back a little.—But I will not think.—
And yet I muﬅ—Oh Gods! that I could loſe
What a fond few hours memory has grav'd
On adamant.
SCIPIO.
But one ﬅrong eﬀort more,
And the fair ﬁeld is thine—A conqueﬅ far
Excelling that o'er Syphax. What remains,
Since now thy madneſs to thy ſelf appears,
But an immediate manly reſolution,
To ake oﬀ this eﬀeminate diſeaſe;
Theſe ſoft ideas, which ſeduce thy ſoul,
Make it all idle, unaſpiring, weak,
A ſcene of dreams; to puﬀ them to the winds,
And be my former friend, thy ſelf again?
I joy to ﬁnd thee touch'd by generous motives;
And that I need not bid thee recolle,
Whoſe awful property thou haﬅ uſurp'd;
Need not aure thee, that the Roman people,
The ſenators of Rome, will never ſuﬀer
A dangerous woman, their devoted foe,
A woman, whoſe irrefragable ſpirit
Has in great part ſuﬅain'd this bloody war,
Whoſe charms corrupted Syphax from their de,
And ﬁr'd embattled nations into rage;
Will never ſuﬀer her, when gain'd ſo dear,
To ruin thee too, taint thy faithful breaﬅ,
And kindle future war. No, fate it ſelf
Is not more ﬅeady to the right than they.
And, where the public good but ſeems concern'd,
No motive their impenetrable hearts,
Nor fear nor tenderneſs, can touch: ſuch is
The ſpirit, that has rais'd Imperial Rome.
MASINISSA.
Ah killing truth!—But I have promis'd, Scipio!
Have ſworn to ſave her from the Roman power.
My plighted faith is paſs'd, my hand is given.
And, by the conſcious gods! who mark'd my vows▪
The whole united world all never have her.
For I will die a thouſand thouſand deaths,
With all Maylia in one ﬁeld expire;
Ere to the loweﬅ wretch, much more to her
I love, to Sophonia, to my queen,
I violate my word.
SCIPIO.
My heart approves
Thy reſolution, thy determin'd honour.
For ever ſacred be thy word, and oath.
Virtue by virtue will alone be clear'd,
And ſcorns the crooked methods of dionour.
But, thus divided, how to keep thy faith
At once to Rome and Sophonia; how
To ſave her from our chains, and yet thyſelf
From greater bondage; this thy ſecret thought
Can beﬅ inform thee.
MASINISSA.
Agony! Diﬅraion!
Theſe wilful tears!—O look not on me, Scipio!
For I'm a child again.
SCIPIO.
Thy tears are no reproach.
Tears oft look graceful on the manly cheek.
The Cruel cannot weep. Even Friendip's eye
Gives thee the drop it would refuſe itſelf.
I know 'tis hard, wounds every bleeding nerve
About thy heart, thus to tear oﬀ thy paon.
But for that very reaſon, Mania,
'Tis hop'd from thee. The harder, thence reſults
The greater glory.—Why ould we pretend
To conquer, rule mankind, be ﬁrﬅ in power,
In great aemblies, honour, place, and pleaſure,
While aves at heart? while by fantaﬅick turns
Our frantic paons rage? The very thought
Should turn our pomp to ame, our ſweet to bitter;
And, when the outs of millions meet our ears,
Whiſper reproach.—O ye celeﬅial powers!
What is it, in a torrent of ſucceſs,
To bear down nations, and o'erﬂow the world?
All your peculiar favour. Real glory
Springs from the lent conqueﬅ of ourſelves;
And without that the conqueror is nought
Save the ﬁrﬅ ave.—Then rouze thee, Mania!
Nor in one weakneſs all thy virtues loſe;
And oh beware of long, of vain repentance!
MASINISSA.
Well! well! no more.—It is but dying too!
SCENE III.
SCIPIO alone.
I wi I have not urg'd the truth to rigour!
There is a time when virtue grows ſevere,
Too much for nature, and even almoﬅ cruel.
SCENE IV.
SCIPIO, LAELIUS.
SCIPIO.
Poor Mania, Laelius, is undone;
Betwixt his paon and his reaſon toﬅ
In miſerable conﬂi.
LAELIUS.
Entering, Scipio,
He ot athwart me, nor vouchſaf'd one look.
Hung on his clouded brow I mark'd deſpair,
And his eye glaring with ſome dire reſolve.
Faﬅ o'er his cheek too ran the haﬅy tear.
It were great pity that he ould be loﬅ!
SCIPIO.
By heavens! to loſe him were a ock, as if
I loﬅ thee, Laelius, loﬅ my deareﬅ brother,
Bound up in friendip from our infant years.
A thouſand lovely qualities endear him,
Only too warm of heart.
LAELIUS.
What all be done?
SCIPIO.
Here let it reﬅ, till time abates his paon.
Nature is nature, Laelius, let the Wiſe
Say what they pleaſe. But now perhaps he dies.—
Haﬅe! haﬅe! and give him hope—I have not time
To tell thee what.—Thy prudence will dire—
Whatever is conﬅent with my honour,
My duty to the publick, and my friendip
To him himſelf, ſay, promiſe, all be done.
I hope returning reaſon will prevent
Our farther care.
LAELIUS.
I ﬂy with joy.
SCIPIO.
His life
Not only ſave, but Sophonia's too:
For both I fear are in this paon mixt.
LAELIUS.
It all be done.
SCENE V.
SCIPIO alone.
If friendip pierces thus,
When love pours in his added violence,
What are the pangs which Mania feels!
SCENE VI.
SOPHONISBA, PHOENISSA.
SOPHONISBA.
Yes, Mania loves me—Heavens! how fond!
But yet I know not what hangs on my ſpirit,
A diſmal boding; for this fatal Scipio,
I dread his virtues, this prevailing Roman,
Even now perhaps deludes the generous king,
Fires his ambition with miﬅaken glory,
Demands me from him; for full well he knows,
That, while I live, I muﬅ intend their ruin.
PHOENISSA.
Madam, theſe fears—
SOPHONISBA.
And yet it cannot be.
Can Scipio, whom even hoﬅile fame proclaims
Of perfe honour, and of poli'd manners,
Smooth, artful, winning, moderate, and wiſe,
Make ſuch a wild demand? Or, if he could,
Can Mania grant it? give his queen,
Whom love and honour bind him to prote,
Yield her a captive to triumphant Rome?
'Tis baſeneſs to ſuſpe it; 'tis inhuman.
What then remains?—Suppoſe they ould reſolve
By right of war to ſeize me for their prize.
Ay, there it kills!—What can his ngle arm,
Againﬅ the Roman power? that very power
By which he ﬅands reﬅor'd? Diﬅraing thought!
Still o'er my head the rod of bondage hangs.
Shame on my weakneſs!—This poor catching hope,
This tranent taﬅe of joy, will only more
Imbitter death.
PHOENISSA.
A moment will decide.
Madam, till then—
SOPHONISBA.
Would I had dy'd before!
And am I dreaming here? Here from the Romans,
Beſeeching I may live to ſwell their triumph?
When my free ſpirit ould ere now have join'd
That great aembly, thoſe devoted ades,
Who ſcorn'd to live till liberty was loﬅ,
But ere their country fell, abhorr'd the light.
Whence this pale ave? he trembles with his meage.
SCENE VII.
SOPHONISBA, PHOENISSA; and to them a SLAVE, with a letter and poiſon from MASINISSA.
SLAVE kneeling.
This, Madam, from the King, and this.
SOPHONISBA.
Ha!—Stay—
(Reads the Letter.)
Rejoice, Phœnia! Give me joy, my friend!
For here is liberty! My fears are air!
The hand of Rome can never touch me more!
Hail! perfe freedom, hail!
PHOENISSA.
How? what? my queen!
Ah what is this?
(Pointing to the poiſon.)
SOPHONISBA.
The ﬁrﬅ of blengs, death.
PHOENISSA.
Alas! alas! can I rejoice in that?
SOPHONISBA.
Shift not thy colour at the ſound of death;
For death appears not in a dreary light,
Seem not a blank to me; a long all
Thoſe fond ſenſations, thoſe enchanting dreams,
Which cheat a toiling world from day to day,
And form the whole of happineſs they know.
It is to me perfeion, glory, triumph.
Nay, fondly would I chuſe it, tho' perſuaded
It were a long dark night without a morning,
To bondage far prefer it! nce it is
Deliverance from a world where Romans rule,
Where violence prevails—And timely too—
Before my country falls; before I feel
As many ﬅripes, as many chains, and deaths,
As there are lives in Carthage.—Glorious charter!
By which I hold immortal life and freedom,
Come, let me read thee once again.—And then,
To thy great purpoſe.
(Reads the letter aloud.)
MASINISSA to his QUEEN.
The Gods know with what pleaſure I would have kept my faith to Sophonia in another manner. But nce this fatal bowl can alone deliver thee from the Romans: call to mind thy father, thy country, that thou haﬅ been the wife of two kings; and a up to the diates of thy own heart. I will not long ſurvive thee.
Oh, 'tis wondrous well!
Ye Gods of death! who rule the Stygian gloom,
Ye who have greatly dy'd! I come! I come!
I die contented, nce I die a queen;
By Rome untouch'd, unſullied by their power;
So much their terror that I muﬅ not live.
And thou, go tell the king, if this is all
The nuptial preſent he can ſend his bride,
I thank him for it—But that death had worn
An eaer face before I truﬅed him.
His poiſon, tell him too, he might have ſpar'd,
Theſe times may want it for himſelf; and I
Live not of ſuch a cordial unprovided.
Add, hither had he come, I could have taught
Him how to die.—I linger not, remember,
I ﬅand not ivering on the brink of life;
And, but theſe votive drops, which grateful thus (Taking them from the poiſon)
To Jove the high Deliverer I ed,
Aure him that I drank it, drank it all,
With an unalter'd ſmile—Away. (Drinks.)
SCENE VIII.
SOPHONISBA, PHOENISSA.
SOPHONISBA.
My friend!
In tears, my friend! Dionour not my death
With womani complaints. Weep not for me,
Weep for thy ſelf, Phœnia, for thy country,
But not for me. There is a certain hour,
Which one would wi all undiﬅurb'd and bright,
No care, no ſorrow, no dejeed paons,
And that is when we die; when hence we go,
Ne'er to be ſeen again; then let us ſpread
A bold exalted wing, and the laﬅ voice
We hear be that of wonder and applauſe.
PHOENISSA.
Who with the patriot wies not to die!
SOPHONISBA.
And is the ſacred moment then ſo near?
The moment, when yon ſun, thoſe heavens, this earth
Hateful to me, polluted by the Romans,
And all the buſy avi race of men,
Shall nk at once; and ﬅrait another ﬅate,
New ſcenes, new joys, new faculties, new wonders,
Riſe on a ſudden round: but this the gods
In clouds and horror wrap, or none would live!
How liberal is death!—Methinks, I ſeem
To touch the happy ore.—Behind me frowns
A ﬅormy ſea, with tong mortals thick;
While, unconﬁn'd and green, before me lies
The land of bliſs, and everlaﬅing freedom:
Where walk the mighty dead; all of one mind,
One blooming ſmile, one language, and one country.
Oh to be there!—my breaﬅ begins to burn;
My tainted heart grows ck.—Ah me! Phœnia,
How many virgins, infants, tender wretches,
Muﬅ feel theſe pangs, ere Carthage is no more!
Soft—lead me to my couch—My ivering Limbs,
Do this laﬅ oﬃce, and then reﬅ for ever.
I pray thee weep not, pierce me not with groans.
The king too here.—Nay then my death is full!
SCENE IX.
SOPHONISBA, PHOENISSA, MASINISSA, LAELIUS, NARVA.
MASINISSA.
Has Sophonia drank this curſed bowl?
Oh horror! horror! what a ght is here!
SOPHONISBA.
Had I not drank, Mania, then,
I had deſerv'd it.
MASINISSA.
Exquite diﬅreſs!
Oh bitter, bitter fate! And this laﬅ hope
Compleats my woe.
SOPHONISBA.
When will theſe ears be deaf,
To miſery's complaint? Theſe eyes be blind,
To miſchief wrought by Rome?
MASINISSA.
Too ſoon! too ſoon!—
Ah why ſo haﬅy? But a little while,
Hadﬅ thou delay'd this horrid draught; I then
Had been as happy, as I now am wretched!
SOPHONISBA.
What means this talk of hope? of coward waiting?
MASINISSA.
What have I done? Oh heavens! I cannot think
Without diﬅraion, hell, and burning angui,
On my ra deed!—But, while I talk, e dies!
And how? what? where am I then?—Say, canﬅ thou
Forgive me, Sophonia?
SOPHONISBA.
Yes, and more,
More than forgive thee, thank thee, Mania.
Hadﬅ thou been weak, and dally'd with my freedom,
Till by proud Rome enav'd; that injury
I never had forgiven.
MASINISSA.
I came with life!
Laelius and I from Scipio haﬅed hither;
But Death was here before us—this vile poiſon!
SOPHONISBA.
With life!—There was ſome merit in the poiſon;
But this deﬅroys it all.—And couldﬅ thou think
Me mean enough to take it?—Oh! Phœnia,
This mortal toil is almoﬅ at an end.—
Receive my parting ſoul.
PHOENISSA.
Alas, my queen!
MASINISSA.
Dies! dies! and ſcorns me!—Mercy! Sophonia!
Grant one forgiving look, while yet thou canﬅ;
Or death it ſelf, the grave cannot relieve me:
But with the furies join'd, my frantic ghoﬅ
Will how
•
for ever.—Quivering! and pale!
Have I done this?
SOPHONISBA.
Come nearer, Mania.—
Out! ﬅubborn nature!—
MASINISSA.
Miſery! theſe pangs
To me transfer'd were eaſe.—A moment only!
An agonizing moment! while I have
An age of things to ſay!
SOPHONISBA.
We, but for Rome,
Might have been happy.—Rouze thee now, my ſoul!
The cold deliverer comes.—Be mild to Syphax!—
In my ſurviving friend behold me ﬅill!—
Farewell!—'Tis done.—O never, never, Carthage,
Shall I behold thee more!
(Dies.)
MASINISSA.
Dead! dead! oh dead!
Is there no death for me?
(Snatches Laelius's ſword to ﬅab himſelf.)
LAELIUS.
Hold, Mania!
MASINISSA.
And wouldﬅ thou make a coward of me, Laelius?
Have me ſurvive that murder'd excellence?
Did e not ﬅir? Ha! Who has ock'd my brain!
It whirls, it blazes.—Was it thou, old man?
NARVA.
Alas! alas!—good Mania, ſoftly!
Let me condu thee to thy couch.
MASINISSA.
The grave
Were welcome.—But ye cannot make me live!
Oppreſs'd with life!—Oﬀ!—crowd not thus around me!
For I will hear, ſee, think no more!—Thou ſun,
Keep up thy hated beams! And all I want
Of thee, kind earth, is an immediate grave!
Ay, there e lyes!—Why to that pallid ſweetneſs
Can not I, Nature! lay my lips, and die!
(Throws himſelf bede her.)
LAELIUS.
See there the ruins of the noble mind,
When from calm reaſon paon tears the ſway.
What pity e ould peri!—Cruel war,
'Tis not the leaﬅ misfortune in thy train,
That oft by thee the brave deﬅroy the brave.
She had a Roman ſoul; for every one
Who loves, like her, his country is a Roman.
Whether on Afric's ſandy plains he glows,
Or lives untam'd among Riphoean ſnows;
If parent-liberty the breaﬅ inﬂame,
The gloomy Libyan then deſerves that name:
And, warm with freedom, under frozen ies,
In fartheﬅ Britain Romans yet may riſe.
The End of the Fifth A.
EPILOGUE.
By a FRIEND.
Spoken by Mrs. CIBBER.
NOW, I'm afraid, the modeﬅ taﬅe in vogue
Demands a ﬅrong, high-ſeaſon'd epilogue.
Elſe might ſome lly ſoul take pity's part,
And odious virtue nk into the heart.
Our ſqueami author ſcruples this proceeding;
He ſays it hurts ſound morals, and good breeding:
Nor Sophonia would he here produce,
A glaring model, of no private uſe.
Ladies, he bid me ſay, behold your Cato.
What tho' no Stoic e, nor read in Plato?
Yet ſure e oﬀer'd, for her country's ſake,
A ſacriﬁce, which Cato could not make—
—Already, now, theſe wicked men are ſneering,
Some wreﬅing what one ſays, and others leering.
I vow they have not ﬅrength for—public ſpirit.
That, ladies, muﬅ be your ſuperior merit.
Mercy forbid! we ould lay down our lives;
Like theſe old, Punic, barbarous, heathen wives.
Spare chriﬅian blood.—But ſure the devil's in her,
Who for her country would not loſe a pinner.
—Lard! how could ſuch a creature ew her face?
How?—Juﬅ as you do there—thro' Bruels Lace.
The Roman fair, the public in diﬅreſs,
Gave up the deareﬅ ornaments of dreſs.
How much more cheaply might you gain applauſe?
—One yard of Ribban, and two ells of Gauſe.
And Gauſe each deep-read critic muﬅ adore;
Your Roman ladies dreſs'd in Gauſe all o'er.
Should you, fair patriots, come to dreſs ſo thin;
How clear might all your—ſentiments be ſeen.
To foreign looms no longer owe your charms;
Nor make their trade more fatal than their arms.
Each Briti dame, who courts her country's praiſe,
By quitting theſe outlandi modes, might raiſe
(Not from yon powder'd band, ſo thin, and ſpruce)
Ten able-bodied men, for—public uſe.
But now a ſerious word about the play.—
Auſpicious ſmile on this his ﬁrﬅ eay,
Ye generous Britons! your own ſons inſpire;
Let your applauſes fan their native ﬁre.
Then other Shakeſpears yet may rouze the ﬅage,
And other Otways melt another age.
FINIS.
A NUPTIAL SONG, intended to have been inſerted in the Fourth A.
COME, gentle Venus! and awage
A warring world, a bleeding age.
For nature lives beneath thy ray,
The wintry tempeﬅs haﬅe away,
A lucid calm inveﬅs the ſea,
Thy native deep is full of thee;
And ﬂowering earth, where'er you ﬂy,
Is all o'er ſpring, all ſun the y.
A genial ſpirit warms the breeze;
Unſeen, among the blooming trees,
The feather'd lovers tune their throat,
The deſart growls a ſoften'd note,
Glad o'er the meads the cattle bound,
And love and harmony go round.
But chief, into the human heart
You ﬅrike the dear delicious dart;
You teach us pleang pangs to know,
To langui in luxurious woe,
To feel the generous paons riſe,
Grow good by gazing, mild by ghs;
Each happy moment to improve,
And ﬁll the perfe year with love.
Come, thou delight of heaven and earth!
To whom all creatures owe their birth;
Oh come, red-ſmiling! tender, come!
And yet prevent our ﬁnal doom.
For long the furious god of war
Has cru'd us with his iron car,
Has rag'd along our ruin'd plains,
Has curs'd them with his cruel ﬅains,
Has clos'd our youth in endleſs eep,
And made the widow'd virgin weep.
Now let him feel thy wonted charms;
Oh take him to thy twining arms!
And, while thy boſom heaves on his,
While deep he prints the humid kiſs,
Ah then! his ﬅormy heart controul,
And gh thy ſelf into his ſoul.
Thy ſon too, Cupid, we implore,
To leave the green Idalian ore;
Be he, ſweet god! our only foe;
Long let him draw the twanging bow,
Transﬁx us with his golden darts,
Pour all his quiver on our hearts,
With gentler angui make us gh,
And teach us ſweeter deaths to die.
ERRATA.
PAGE 3. Line 3. read fair-ſeeming inﬅead of fair ſeeming. Page 32. Line 17. read Ere for E'er. Page 38. Line 9. read to for on. Page 45. Line 10. read thy for they. Page 46. Line 13. read harmleſs-ſeeming for harmleſs ſeeming.
Juﬅ publied the following BOOKS, printed for A. MILLAR.
1. COlleions relating to the Hiﬅory of Mary Queen of Scotland; containing a great Number of original Papers never before printed: Alſo a few ſcarce Pieces reprinted, taken from the beﬅ Copies, by the learned and judicious James Anderſon, 
Eſq late Poﬅ-Maﬅer-General, and Antiquary of Scotland: With an explanatory Index of the obſolete Words; and Prefaces ewing the Importance of theſe Colleions, in 4 Vols. on a ﬁne imperial Paper, and a moﬅ beautiful Letter, 4to.
2. Spring, a Poem, the Second Edition, by Mr. Thomſon.
3. An Eay on the Education of a young Briti Nobleman after he leaves the Schools; to which is added, ſome Obſervations on the Oﬃce of an Ambaador.
4. A Syﬅem of Heraldry, Speculative and Praical: With the true Art of Blazon, according to the moﬅ approved Heralds in Europe. Illuﬅrated with ſuitable Examples of armorial Figures at Atchievements of the moﬅ conderable Surnames and Families in Scotland, &amp;c. Together with Hiﬅorical and Genealogical Memorials relating thereto. By Alex. Niett, 
Eſq 
Folio.
Soon will be publi'd
6. The Hiﬅory of the Church under the Old Teﬅament from the Creation of the World; with a particular Account of the State of the Jews before and after the Babyloni Captivity, and down to the preſent Time: Wherein the Aﬀairs and Learning of Heathen-Nations before the Birth of Chriﬅ, are alſo illuﬅrated; to which is adjoyned a Diſcourſe to promote the Converon of the Jews to Chriﬅianity, by Robert Millar, M. A.
